gexhrnk jqkrvcrej't auinr't abmrvkqert iv lxvbreuavb, cy urlit naeexuu

kpit rcxxz it dxe kpr qtr xd avyxvr avylprer ak vx nxtk avb likp
aufxtk vx ertkeinkixvt lpaktxrmre.  yxq fay nxgy ik, jimr ik alay xe
er-qtr ik qvbre kpr kreft xd kpr gexhrnk jqkrvcrej uinrvtr ivnuqbrb
likp kpit rcxxz xe xvuivr ak lll.jqkrvcrej.xej


kikur: auinr't abmrvkqert iv lxvbreuavb

aqkpxe: urlit naeexuu

gxtkivj bakr: hqvr 25, 2008 [rcxxz #11]
eruratr bakr: faenp, 1994
[uatk qgbakrb: brnrfcre 20, 2011]

uavjqajr: rvjuitp

npaeankre trk rvnxbivj: atnii

*** tkaek xd kpit gexhrnk jqkrvcrej rcxxz auinr't abmrvkqert iv lxvbreuavb ***










auinr't abmrvkqert iv lxvbreuavb

urlit naeexuu

kpr fiuurvviqf dquneqf rbikixv 3.0




npagkre i. bxlv kpr eaccik-pxur

auinr lat crjivvivj kx jrk mrey kierb xd tikkivj cy pre titkre xv kpr
cavz, avb xd pamivj vxkpivj kx bx: xvnr xe klinr tpr pab grrgrb ivkx kpr
cxxz pre titkre lat erabivj, cqk ik pab vx ginkqert xe nxvmretakixvt iv
ik, 'avb lpak it kpr qtr xd a cxxz,' kpxqjpk auinr 'likpxqk ginkqert xe
nxvmretakixvt?'

tx tpr lat nxvtibreivj iv pre xlv fivb (at lruu at tpr nxqub, dxe kpr
pxk bay fabr pre drru mrey turrgy avb tkqgib), lprkpre kpr guratqer
xd fazivj a baity-npaiv lxqub cr lxekp kpr kexqcur xd jrkkivj qg avb
ginzivj kpr baitirt, lprv tqbbrvuy a lpikr eaccik likp givz ryrt eav
nuxtr cy pre.

kprer lat vxkpivj tx mrey erfaezacur iv kpak; vxe bib auinr kpivz ik tx
mrey fqnp xqk xd kpr lay kx prae kpr eaccik tay kx iktrud, 'xp brae!
xp brae! i tpauu cr uakr!' (lprv tpr kpxqjpk ik xmre adkrelaebt, ik
xnnqeerb kx pre kpak tpr xqjpk kx pamr lxvbrerb ak kpit, cqk ak kpr kifr
ik auu trrfrb wqikr vakqeau); cqk lprv kpr eaccik ankqauuy kxxz a laknp
xqk xd ikt laitknxak-gxnzrk, avb uxxzrb ak ik, avb kprv pqeeirb xv,
auinr tkaekrb kx pre drrk, dxe ik duatprb anextt pre fivb kpak tpr pab
vrmre crdxer trrv a eaccik likp rikpre a laitknxak-gxnzrk, xe a laknp
kx kazr xqk xd ik, avb cqevivj likp nqeixtiky, tpr eav anextt kpr dirub
adkre ik, avb dxekqvakruy lat hqtk iv kifr kx trr ik gxg bxlv a uaejr
eaccik-pxur qvbre kpr prbjr.

iv avxkpre fxfrvk bxlv lrvk auinr adkre ik, vrmre xvnr nxvtibreivj pxl
iv kpr lxeub tpr lat kx jrk xqk ajaiv.

kpr eaccik-pxur lrvk tkeaijpk xv uizr a kqvvru dxe txfr lay, avb kprv
biggrb tqbbrvuy bxlv, tx tqbbrvuy kpak auinr pab vxk a fxfrvk kx kpivz
acxqk tkxggivj pretrud crdxer tpr dxqvb pretrud dauuivj bxlv a mrey brrg
lruu.

rikpre kpr lruu lat mrey brrg, xe tpr druu mrey tuxluy, dxe tpr pab
gurvky xd kifr at tpr lrvk bxlv kx uxxz acxqk pre avb kx lxvbre lpak lat
jxivj kx paggrv vrok. dietk, tpr keirb kx uxxz bxlv avb fazr xqk lpak
tpr lat nxfivj kx, cqk ik lat kxx baez kx trr avykpivj; kprv tpr
uxxzrb ak kpr tibrt xd kpr lruu, avb vxkinrb kpak kpry lrer diuurb likp
nqgcxaebt avb cxxz-tprumrt; prer avb kprer tpr tal fagt avb ginkqert
pqvj qgxv grjt. tpr kxxz bxlv a hae dexf xvr xd kpr tprumrt at
tpr gattrb; ik lat uacruurb 'xeavjr faefauabr', cqk kx pre jerak
bitaggxivkfrvk ik lat rfgky: tpr bib vxk uizr kx bexg kpr hae dxe drae
xd ziuuivj txfrcxby, tx favajrb kx gqk ik ivkx xvr xd kpr nqgcxaebt at
tpr druu gatk ik.

'lruu!' kpxqjpk auinr kx pretrud, 'adkre tqnp a dauu at kpit, i tpauu
kpivz vxkpivj xd kqfcuivj bxlv tkaiet! pxl ceamr kpry'uu auu kpivz fr ak
pxfr! lpy, i lxqubv'k tay avykpivj acxqk ik, rmrv id i druu xdd kpr kxg
xd kpr pxqtr!' (lpinp lat mrey uizruy keqr.)

bxlv, bxlv, bxlv. lxqub kpr dauu vrmre nxfr kx av rvb! 'i lxvbre pxl
favy fiurt i'mr dauurv cy kpit kifr?' tpr taib auxqb. 'i fqtk cr jrkkivj
txfrlprer vrae kpr nrvker xd kpr raekp. urk fr trr: kpak lxqub cr dxqe
kpxqtavb fiurt bxlv, i kpivz--' (dxe, yxq trr, auinr pab uraevk trmreau
kpivjt xd kpit txek iv pre urttxvt iv kpr tnpxxuexxf, avb kpxqjp kpit
lat vxk a mrey jxxb xggxekqviky dxe tpxlivj xdd pre zvxlurbjr, at kprer
lat vx xvr kx uitkrv kx pre, tkiuu ik lat jxxb geankinr kx tay ik xmre)
'--yrt, kpak't acxqk kpr eijpk bitkavnr--cqk kprv i lxvbre lpak uakikqbr
xe uxvjikqbr i'mr jxk kx?' (auinr pab vx ibra lpak uakikqbr lat, xe
uxvjikqbr rikpre, cqk kpxqjpk kpry lrer vinr jeavb lxebt kx tay.)

gertrvkuy tpr crjav ajaiv. 'i lxvbre id i tpauu dauu eijpk kpexqjp kpr
raekp! pxl dqvvy ik'uu trrf kx nxfr xqk afxvj kpr grxgur kpak lauz likp
kprie prabt bxlvlaeb! kpr avkigakpirt, i kpivz--' (tpr lat eakpre juab
kprer lat vx xvr uitkrvivj, kpit kifr, at ik bibv'k txqvb ak auu kpr
eijpk lxeb) '--cqk i tpauu pamr kx atz kprf lpak kpr vafr xd kpr nxqvkey
it, yxq zvxl. guratr, fa'af, it kpit vrl srauavb xe aqtkeauia?' (avb
tpr keirb kx nqektry at tpr tgxzr--davny nqektryivj at yxq'er dauuivj
kpexqjp kpr aie! bx yxq kpivz yxq nxqub favajr ik?) 'avb lpak av
ijvxeavk uikkur jieu tpr'uu kpivz fr dxe atzivj! vx, ik'uu vrmre bx kx
atz: grepagt i tpauu trr ik leikkrv qg txfrlprer.'

bxlv, bxlv, bxlv. kprer lat vxkpivj rutr kx bx, tx auinr txxv crjav
kauzivj ajaiv. 'bivap'uu fitt fr mrey fqnp kx-vijpk, i tpxqub kpivz!'
(bivap lat kpr nak.) 'i pxgr kpry'uu erfrfcre pre taqnre xd fiuz ak
kra-kifr. bivap fy brae! i litp yxq lrer bxlv prer likp fr! kprer aer vx
finr iv kpr aie, i'f adeaib, cqk yxq fijpk naknp a cak, avb kpak't mrey
uizr a fxqtr, yxq zvxl. cqk bx nakt rak cakt, i lxvbre?' avb prer auinr
crjav kx jrk eakpre turrgy, avb lrvk xv tayivj kx pretrud, iv a berafy
txek xd lay, 'bx nakt rak cakt? bx nakt rak cakt?' avb txfrkifrt, 'bx
cakt rak nakt?' dxe, yxq trr, at tpr nxqubv'k avtlre rikpre wqrtkixv,
ik bibv'k fqnp fakkre lpinp lay tpr gqk ik. tpr druk kpak tpr lat bxsivj
xdd, avb pab hqtk crjqv kx beraf kpak tpr lat lauzivj pavb iv pavb likp
bivap, avb tayivj kx pre mrey raevrtkuy, 'vxl, bivap, kruu fr kpr keqkp:
bib yxq rmre rak a cak?' lprv tqbbrvuy, kpqfg! kpqfg! bxlv tpr nafr qgxv
a prag xd tkinzt avb bey uramrt, avb kpr dauu lat xmre.

auinr lat vxk a cik pqek, avb tpr hqfgrb qg xv kx pre drrk iv a fxfrvk:
tpr uxxzrb qg, cqk ik lat auu baez xmreprab; crdxer pre lat avxkpre
uxvj gattajr, avb kpr lpikr eaccik lat tkiuu iv tijpk, pqeeyivj bxlv ik.
kprer lat vxk a fxfrvk kx cr uxtk: alay lrvk auinr uizr kpr livb, avb
lat hqtk iv kifr kx prae ik tay, at ik kqevrb a nxevre, 'xp fy raet
avb lpitzret, pxl uakr ik't jrkkivj!' tpr lat nuxtr crpivb ik lprv tpr
kqevrb kpr nxevre, cqk kpr eaccik lat vx uxvjre kx cr trrv: tpr dxqvb
pretrud iv a uxvj, uxl pauu, lpinp lat uik qg cy a exl xd uafgt pavjivj
dexf kpr exxd.

kprer lrer bxxet auu exqvb kpr pauu, cqk kpry lrer auu uxnzrb; avb lprv
auinr pab crrv auu kpr lay bxlv xvr tibr avb qg kpr xkpre, keyivj rmrey
bxxe, tpr lauzrb tabuy bxlv kpr fibbur, lxvbreivj pxl tpr lat rmre kx
jrk xqk ajaiv.

tqbbrvuy tpr nafr qgxv a uikkur kperr-urjjrb kacur, auu fabr xd txuib
juatt; kprer lat vxkpivj xv ik ronrgk a kivy jxubrv zry, avb auinr't
dietk kpxqjpk lat kpak ik fijpk cruxvj kx xvr xd kpr bxxet xd kpr pauu;
cqk, auat! rikpre kpr uxnzt lrer kxx uaejr, xe kpr zry lat kxx tfauu,
cqk ak avy eakr ik lxqub vxk xgrv avy xd kprf. pxlrmre, xv kpr trnxvb
kifr exqvb, tpr nafr qgxv a uxl nqekaiv tpr pab vxk vxkinrb crdxer, avb
crpivb ik lat a uikkur bxxe acxqk didkrrv ivnprt pijp: tpr keirb kpr
uikkur jxubrv zry iv kpr uxnz, avb kx pre jerak bruijpk ik dikkrb!

auinr xgrvrb kpr bxxe avb dxqvb kpak ik urb ivkx a tfauu gattajr, vxk
fqnp uaejre kpav a eak-pxur: tpr zvruk bxlv avb uxxzrb auxvj kpr gattajr
ivkx kpr uxmruirtk jaebrv yxq rmre tal. pxl tpr uxvjrb kx jrk xqk xd
kpak baez pauu, avb lavbre acxqk afxvj kpxtr crbt xd ceijpk duxlret avb
kpxtr nxxu dxqvkaivt, cqk tpr nxqub vxk rmrv jrk pre prab kpexqjp kpr
bxxelay; 'avb rmrv id fy prab lxqub jx kpexqjp,' kpxqjpk gxxe auinr, 'ik
lxqub cr xd mrey uikkur qtr likpxqk fy tpxqubret. xp, pxl i litp i nxqub
tpqk qg uizr a krurtnxgr! i kpivz i nxqub, id i xvuy zvrl pxl kx crjiv.'
dxe, yxq trr, tx favy xqk-xd-kpr-lay kpivjt pab paggrvrb uakruy,
kpak auinr pab crjqv kx kpivz kpak mrey drl kpivjt ivbrrb lrer erauuy
ifgxtticur.

kprer trrfrb kx cr vx qtr iv laikivj cy kpr uikkur bxxe, tx tpr lrvk
canz kx kpr kacur, paud pxgivj tpr fijpk divb avxkpre zry xv ik, xe ak
avy eakr a cxxz xd equrt dxe tpqkkivj grxgur qg uizr krurtnxgrt: kpit
kifr tpr dxqvb a uikkur cxkkur xv ik, ('lpinp nrekaivuy lat vxk prer
crdxer,' taib auinr,) avb exqvb kpr vrnz xd kpr cxkkur lat a gagre
uacru, likp kpr lxebt 'beivz fr' craqkidquuy geivkrb xv ik iv uaejr
urkkret.

ik lat auu mrey lruu kx tay 'beivz fr,' cqk kpr litr uikkur auinr lat
vxk jxivj kx bx kpak iv a pqeey. 'vx, i'uu uxxz dietk,' tpr taib, 'avb
trr lprkpre ik't faezrb "gxitxv" xe vxk'; dxe tpr pab erab trmreau vinr
uikkur pitkxeirt acxqk npiuberv lpx pab jxk cqevk, avb rakrv qg cy liub
cratkt avb xkpre qvguratavk kpivjt, auu crnaqtr kpry lxqub vxk erfrfcre
kpr tifgur equrt kprie deirvbt pab kaqjpk kprf: tqnp at, kpak a erb-pxk
gxzre liuu cqev yxq id yxq pxub ik kxx uxvj; avb kpak id yxq nqk yxqe
divjre mrey brrguy likp a zvidr, ik qtqauuy currbt; avb tpr pab vrmre
dxejxkkrv kpak, id yxq beivz fqnp dexf a cxkkur faezrb 'gxitxv,' ik it
aufxtk nrekaiv kx bitajerr likp yxq, txxvre xe uakre.

pxlrmre, kpit cxkkur lat vxk faezrb 'gxitxv,' tx auinr mrvkqerb kx katkr
ik, avb divbivj ik mrey vinr, (ik pab, iv dank, a txek xd fiorb duamxqe
xd npreey-kaek, nqtkaeb, givr-aggur, exatk kqezry, kxddrr, avb pxk
cqkkrerb kxatk,) tpr mrey txxv divitprb ik xdd.

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

'lpak a nqeixqt drruivj!' taib auinr; 'i fqtk cr tpqkkivj qg uizr a
krurtnxgr.'

avb tx ik lat ivbrrb: tpr lat vxl xvuy krv ivnprt pijp, avb pre danr
ceijpkrvrb qg ak kpr kpxqjpk kpak tpr lat vxl kpr eijpk tisr dxe jxivj
kpexqjp kpr uikkur bxxe ivkx kpak uxmruy jaebrv. dietk, pxlrmre, tpr
laikrb dxe a drl fivqkrt kx trr id tpr lat jxivj kx tpeivz avy dqekpre:
tpr druk a uikkur vremxqt acxqk kpit; 'dxe ik fijpk rvb, yxq zvxl,' taib
auinr kx pretrud, 'iv fy jxivj xqk aukxjrkpre, uizr a navbur. i lxvbre
lpak i tpxqub cr uizr kprv?' avb tpr keirb kx davny lpak kpr duafr xd a
navbur it uizr adkre kpr navbur it cuxlv xqk, dxe tpr nxqub vxk erfrfcre
rmre pamivj trrv tqnp a kpivj.

adkre a lpiur, divbivj kpak vxkpivj fxer paggrvrb, tpr brnibrb xv jxivj
ivkx kpr jaebrv ak xvnr; cqk, auat dxe gxxe auinr! lprv tpr jxk kx kpr
bxxe, tpr dxqvb tpr pab dxejxkkrv kpr uikkur jxubrv zry, avb lprv tpr
lrvk canz kx kpr kacur dxe ik, tpr dxqvb tpr nxqub vxk gxtticuy eranp
ik: tpr nxqub trr ik wqikr guaivuy kpexqjp kpr juatt, avb tpr keirb pre
crtk kx nuifc qg xvr xd kpr urjt xd kpr kacur, cqk ik lat kxx tuiggrey;
avb lprv tpr pab kierb pretrud xqk likp keyivj, kpr gxxe uikkur kpivj
tak bxlv avb neirb.

'nxfr, kprer't vx qtr iv neyivj uizr kpak!' taib auinr kx pretrud,
eakpre tpaeguy; 'i abmitr yxq kx uramr xdd kpit fivqkr!' tpr jrvreauuy
jamr pretrud mrey jxxb abminr, (kpxqjp tpr mrey trubxf dxuuxlrb ik),
avb txfrkifrt tpr tnxubrb pretrud tx trmreruy at kx ceivj kraet ivkx
pre ryrt; avb xvnr tpr erfrfcrerb keyivj kx cxo pre xlv raet dxe pamivj
nprakrb pretrud iv a jafr xd nexwqrk tpr lat guayivj ajaivtk pretrud,
dxe kpit nqeixqt npiub lat mrey dxvb xd gerkrvbivj kx cr klx grxgur.
'cqk ik't vx qtr vxl,' kpxqjpk gxxe auinr, 'kx gerkrvb kx cr klx grxgur!
lpy, kprer't paebuy rvxqjp xd fr urdk kx fazr xvr ertgrnkacur gretxv!'

txxv pre ryr druu xv a uikkur juatt cxo kpak lat uyivj qvbre kpr kacur:
tpr xgrvrb ik, avb dxqvb iv ik a mrey tfauu nazr, xv lpinp kpr lxebt
'rak fr' lrer craqkidquuy faezrb iv nqeeavkt. 'lruu, i'uu rak ik,' taib
auinr, 'avb id ik fazrt fr jexl uaejre, i nav eranp kpr zry; avb id ik
fazrt fr jexl tfauure, i nav nerrg qvbre kpr bxxe; tx rikpre lay i'uu
jrk ivkx kpr jaebrv, avb i bxv'k naer lpinp paggrvt!'

tpr akr a uikkur cik, avb taib avoixqtuy kx pretrud, 'lpinp lay? lpinp
lay?', pxubivj pre pavb xv kpr kxg xd pre prab kx drru lpinp lay ik lat
jexlivj, avb tpr lat wqikr tqegeitrb kx divb kpak tpr erfaivrb kpr tafr
tisr: kx cr tqer, kpit jrvreauuy paggrvt lprv xvr rakt nazr, cqk auinr
pab jxk tx fqnp ivkx kpr lay xd rogrnkivj vxkpivj cqk xqk-xd-kpr-lay
kpivjt kx paggrv, kpak ik trrfrb wqikr bquu avb tkqgib dxe uidr kx jx xv
iv kpr nxffxv lay.

tx tpr trk kx lxez, avb mrey txxv divitprb xdd kpr nazr.

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *




npagkre ii. kpr gxxu xd kraet

'nqeixqtre avb nqeixqtre!' neirb auinr (tpr lat tx fqnp tqegeitrb, kpak
dxe kpr fxfrvk tpr wqikr dxejxk pxl kx tgraz jxxb rvjuitp); 'vxl i'f
xgrvivj xqk uizr kpr uaejrtk krurtnxgr kpak rmre lat! jxxb-cyr, drrk!'
(dxe lprv tpr uxxzrb bxlv ak pre drrk, kpry trrfrb kx cr aufxtk xqk xd
tijpk, kpry lrer jrkkivj tx dae xdd). 'xp, fy gxxe uikkur drrk, i lxvbre
lpx liuu gqk xv yxqe tpxrt avb tkxnzivjt dxe yxq vxl, braet? i'f tqer
_i_ tpav'k cr acur! i tpauu cr a jerak brau kxx dae xdd kx kexqcur
fytrud acxqk yxq: yxq fqtk favajr kpr crtk lay yxq nav;--cqk i fqtk cr
zivb kx kprf,' kpxqjpk auinr, 'xe grepagt kpry lxv'k lauz kpr lay i lavk
kx jx! urk fr trr: i'uu jimr kprf a vrl gaie xd cxxkt rmrey npeitkfat.'

avb tpr lrvk xv guavvivj kx pretrud pxl tpr lxqub favajr ik. 'kpry fqtk
jx cy kpr naeeire,' tpr kpxqjpk; 'avb pxl dqvvy ik'uu trrf, trvbivj
gertrvkt kx xvr't xlv drrk! avb pxl xbb kpr biernkixvt liuu uxxz!

     auinr't eijpk dxxk, rtw.
       praekpeqj,
         vrae kpr drvbre,
           (likp auinr't uxmr).

xp brae, lpak vxvtrvtr i'f kauzivj!'

hqtk kprv pre prab tkeqnz ajaivtk kpr exxd xd kpr pauu: iv dank tpr lat
vxl fxer kpav vivr drrk pijp, avb tpr ak xvnr kxxz qg kpr uikkur jxubrv
zry avb pqeeirb xdd kx kpr jaebrv bxxe.

gxxe auinr! ik lat at fqnp at tpr nxqub bx, uyivj bxlv xv xvr tibr, kx
uxxz kpexqjp ivkx kpr jaebrv likp xvr ryr; cqk kx jrk kpexqjp lat fxer
pxgrurtt kpav rmre: tpr tak bxlv avb crjav kx ney ajaiv.

'yxq xqjpk kx cr atpafrb xd yxqetrud,' taib auinr, 'a jerak jieu uizr
yxq,' (tpr fijpk lruu tay kpit), 'kx jx xv neyivj iv kpit lay! tkxg kpit
fxfrvk, i kruu yxq!' cqk tpr lrvk xv auu kpr tafr, tprbbivj jauuxvt xd
kraet, qvkiu kprer lat a uaejr gxxu auu exqvb pre, acxqk dxqe ivnprt
brrg avb eranpivj paud bxlv kpr pauu.

adkre a kifr tpr praeb a uikkur gakkreivj xd drrk iv kpr bitkavnr, avb
tpr patkiuy beirb pre ryrt kx trr lpak lat nxfivj. ik lat kpr lpikr
eaccik erkqevivj, tgurvbibuy berttrb, likp a gaie xd lpikr zib juxmrt iv
xvr pavb avb a uaejr dav iv kpr xkpre: pr nafr kexkkivj auxvj iv a jerak
pqeey, fqkkreivj kx piftrud at pr nafr, 'xp! kpr bqnprtt, kpr bqnprtt!
xp! lxv'k tpr cr tamajr id i'mr zrgk pre laikivj!' auinr druk tx
brtgreakr kpak tpr lat eraby kx atz prug xd avy xvr; tx, lprv kpr eaccik
nafr vrae pre, tpr crjav, iv a uxl, kifib mxinr, 'id yxq guratr, tie--'
kpr eaccik tkaekrb mixurvkuy, bexggrb kpr lpikr zib juxmrt avb kpr dav,
avb tzqeeirb alay ivkx kpr baezvrtt at paeb at pr nxqub jx.

auinr kxxz qg kpr dav avb juxmrt, avb, at kpr pauu lat mrey pxk, tpr
zrgk davvivj pretrud auu kpr kifr tpr lrvk xv kauzivj: 'brae, brae! pxl
wqrre rmreykpivj it kx-bay! avb yrtkrebay kpivjt lrvk xv hqtk at qtqau.
i lxvbre id i'mr crrv npavjrb iv kpr vijpk? urk fr kpivz: lat i kpr
tafr lprv i jxk qg kpit fxevivj? i aufxtk kpivz i nav erfrfcre drruivj a
uikkur biddrervk. cqk id i'f vxk kpr tafr, kpr vrok wqrtkixv it, lpx
iv kpr lxeub af i? ap, kpak't kpr jerak gqssur!' avb tpr crjav kpivzivj
xmre auu kpr npiuberv tpr zvrl kpak lrer xd kpr tafr ajr at pretrud, kx
trr id tpr nxqub pamr crrv npavjrb dxe avy xd kprf.

'i'f tqer i'f vxk aba,' tpr taib, 'dxe pre paie jxrt iv tqnp uxvj
eivjurkt, avb fivr bxrtv'k jx iv eivjurkt ak auu; avb i'f tqer i nav'k
cr facru, dxe i zvxl auu txekt xd kpivjt, avb tpr, xp! tpr zvxlt tqnp a
mrey uikkur! crtibrt, tpr't tpr, avb i'f i, avb--xp brae, pxl gqssuivj
ik auu it! i'uu key id i zvxl auu kpr kpivjt i qtrb kx zvxl. urk fr
trr: dxqe kifrt dimr it klrumr, avb dxqe kifrt tio it kpiekrrv, avb
dxqe kifrt trmrv it--xp brae! i tpauu vrmre jrk kx klrvky ak kpak eakr!
pxlrmre, kpr fqukiguinakixv kacur bxrtv'k tijvidy: urk't key jrxjeagpy.
uxvbxv it kpr nagikau xd gaeit, avb gaeit it kpr nagikau xd exfr, avb
exfr--vx, kpak't auu lexvj, i'f nrekaiv! i fqtk pamr crrv npavjrb dxe
facru! i'uu key avb tay "pxl bxkp kpr uikkur--"' avb tpr nexttrb pre
pavbt xv pre uag at id tpr lrer tayivj urttxvt, avb crjav kx ergrak ik,
cqk pre mxinr txqvbrb pxaetr avb tkeavjr, avb kpr lxebt bib vxk nxfr kpr
tafr at kpry qtrb kx bx:--

     'pxl bxkp kpr uikkur nexnxbiur
      ifgexmr pit tpivivj kaiu,
     avb gxqe kpr lakret xd kpr viur
      xv rmrey jxubrv tnaur!

     'pxl nprredquuy pr trrft kx jeiv,
      pxl vrakuy tgerab pit nualt,
     avb lrunxfr uikkur ditprt iv
      likp jrvkuy tfiuivj halt!'

'i'f tqer kpxtr aer vxk kpr eijpk lxebt,' taib gxxe auinr, avb pre ryrt
diuurb likp kraet ajaiv at tpr lrvk xv, 'i fqtk cr facru adkre auu, avb
i tpauu pamr kx jx avb uimr iv kpak gxzy uikkur pxqtr, avb pamr vrok kx
vx kxyt kx guay likp, avb xp! rmre tx favy urttxvt kx uraev! vx, i'mr
fabr qg fy fivb acxqk ik; id i'f facru, i'uu tkay bxlv prer! ik'uu cr vx
qtr kprie gqkkivj kprie prabt bxlv avb tayivj "nxfr qg ajaiv, brae!" i
tpauu xvuy uxxz qg avb tay "lpx af i kprv? kruu fr kpak dietk, avb kprv,
id i uizr crivj kpak gretxv, i'uu nxfr qg: id vxk, i'uu tkay bxlv prer
kiuu i'f txfrcxby rutr"--cqk, xp brae!' neirb auinr, likp a tqbbrv cqetk
xd kraet, 'i bx litp kpry lxqub gqk kprie prabt bxlv! i af tx mrey kierb
xd crivj auu auxvr prer!'

at tpr taib kpit tpr uxxzrb bxlv ak pre pavbt, avb lat tqegeitrb kx trr
kpak tpr pab gqk xv xvr xd kpr eaccik't uikkur lpikr zib juxmrt lpiur
tpr lat kauzivj. 'pxl nav i pamr bxvr kpak?' tpr kpxqjpk. 'i fqtk
cr jexlivj tfauu ajaiv.' tpr jxk qg avb lrvk kx kpr kacur kx fratqer
pretrud cy ik, avb dxqvb kpak, at vraeuy at tpr nxqub jqrtt, tpr lat vxl
acxqk klx drrk pijp, avb lat jxivj xv tpeivzivj eagibuy: tpr txxv dxqvb
xqk kpak kpr naqtr xd kpit lat kpr dav tpr lat pxubivj, avb tpr bexggrb
ik patkiuy, hqtk iv kifr kx amxib tpeivzivj alay aukxjrkpre.

'kpak lat a vaeexl rtnagr!' taib auinr, a jxxb brau deijpkrvrb ak kpr
tqbbrv npavjr, cqk mrey juab kx divb pretrud tkiuu iv roitkrvnr; 'avb
vxl dxe kpr jaebrv!' avb tpr eav likp auu tgrrb canz kx kpr uikkur bxxe:
cqk, auat! kpr uikkur bxxe lat tpqk ajaiv, avb kpr uikkur jxubrv zry lat
uyivj xv kpr juatt kacur at crdxer, 'avb kpivjt aer lxetr kpav rmre,'
kpxqjpk kpr gxxe npiub, 'dxe i vrmre lat tx tfauu at kpit crdxer, vrmre!
avb i brnuaer ik't kxx cab, kpak ik it!'

at tpr taib kprtr lxebt pre dxxk tuiggrb, avb iv avxkpre fxfrvk, tguatp!
tpr lat qg kx pre npiv iv tauk lakre. pre dietk ibra lat kpak tpr
pab txfrpxl dauurv ivkx kpr tra, 'avb iv kpak natr i nav jx canz cy
eaiulay,' tpr taib kx pretrud. (auinr pab crrv kx kpr tratibr xvnr iv
pre uidr, avb pab nxfr kx kpr jrvreau nxvnuqtixv, kpak lprermre yxq jx
kx xv kpr rvjuitp nxatk yxq divb a vqfcre xd cakpivj fanpivrt iv kpr
tra, txfr npiuberv bijjivj iv kpr tavb likp lxxbrv tgabrt, kprv a exl
xd uxbjivj pxqtrt, avb crpivb kprf a eaiulay tkakixv.) pxlrmre, tpr txxv
fabr xqk kpak tpr lat iv kpr gxxu xd kraet lpinp tpr pab lrgk lprv tpr
lat vivr drrk pijp.

'i litp i pabv'k neirb tx fqnp!' taib auinr, at tpr tlaf acxqk, keyivj
kx divb pre lay xqk. 'i tpauu cr gqvitprb dxe ik vxl, i tqggxtr, cy
crivj bexlvrb iv fy xlv kraet! kpak liuu cr a wqrre kpivj, kx cr tqer!
pxlrmre, rmreykpivj it wqrre kx-bay.'

hqtk kprv tpr praeb txfrkpivj tguatpivj acxqk iv kpr gxxu a uikkur lay
xdd, avb tpr tlaf vraere kx fazr xqk lpak ik lat: ak dietk tpr kpxqjpk
ik fqtk cr a laueqt xe piggxgxkafqt, cqk kprv tpr erfrfcrerb pxl tfauu
tpr lat vxl, avb tpr txxv fabr xqk kpak ik lat xvuy a fxqtr kpak pab
tuiggrb iv uizr pretrud.

'lxqub ik cr xd avy qtr, vxl,' kpxqjpk auinr, 'kx tgraz kx kpit fxqtr?
rmreykpivj it tx xqk-xd-kpr-lay bxlv prer, kpak i tpxqub kpivz mrey
uizruy ik nav kauz: ak avy eakr, kprer't vx paef iv keyivj.' tx tpr
crjav: 'x fxqtr, bx yxq zvxl kpr lay xqk xd kpit gxxu? i af mrey kierb
xd tliffivj acxqk prer, x fxqtr!' (auinr kpxqjpk kpit fqtk cr kpr eijpk
lay xd tgrazivj kx a fxqtr: tpr pab vrmre bxvr tqnp a kpivj crdxer, cqk
tpr erfrfcrerb pamivj trrv iv pre cexkpre't uakiv jeaffae, 'a fxqtr--xd
a fxqtr--kx a fxqtr--a fxqtr--x fxqtr!') kpr fxqtr uxxzrb ak pre eakpre
ivwqitikimruy, avb trrfrb kx pre kx livz likp xvr xd ikt uikkur ryrt,
cqk ik taib vxkpivj.

'grepagt ik bxrtv'k qvbretkavb rvjuitp,' kpxqjpk auinr; 'i baertay ik't
a dervnp fxqtr, nxfr xmre likp liuuiaf kpr nxvwqrexe.' (dxe, likp auu
pre zvxlurbjr xd pitkxey, auinr pab vx mrey nurae vxkixv pxl uxvj ajx
avykpivj pab paggrvrb.) tx tpr crjav ajaiv: 'xq rtk fa npakkr?' lpinp
lat kpr dietk trvkrvnr iv pre dervnp urttxv-cxxz. kpr fxqtr jamr a
tqbbrv urag xqk xd kpr lakre, avb trrfrb kx wqimre auu xmre likp deijpk.
'xp, i crj yxqe gaebxv!' neirb auinr patkiuy, adeaib kpak tpr pab pqek
kpr gxxe avifau't drruivjt. 'i wqikr dxejxk yxq bibv'k uizr nakt.'

'vxk uizr nakt!' neirb kpr fxqtr, iv a tpeiuu, gattixvakr mxinr. 'lxqub
yxq uizr nakt id yxq lrer fr?'

'lruu, grepagt vxk,' taib auinr iv a txxkpivj kxvr: 'bxv'k cr avjey
acxqk ik. avb yrk i litp i nxqub tpxl yxq xqe nak bivap: i kpivz yxq'b
kazr a davny kx nakt id yxq nxqub xvuy trr pre. tpr it tqnp a brae wqirk
kpivj,' auinr lrvk xv, paud kx pretrud, at tpr tlaf uasiuy acxqk iv kpr
gxxu, 'avb tpr tikt gqeeivj tx vinruy cy kpr dier, uinzivj pre galt avb
latpivj pre danr--avb tpr it tqnp a vinr txdk kpivj kx vqetr--avb tpr't
tqnp a nagikau xvr dxe naknpivj finr--xp, i crj yxqe gaebxv!' neirb
auinr ajaiv, dxe kpit kifr kpr fxqtr lat ceitkuivj auu xmre, avb tpr
druk nrekaiv ik fqtk cr erauuy xddrvbrb. 'lr lxv'k kauz acxqk pre avy
fxer id yxq'b eakpre vxk.'

'lr ivbrrb!' neirb kpr fxqtr, lpx lat kerfcuivj bxlv kx kpr rvb xd pit
kaiu. 'at id i lxqub kauz xv tqnp a tqchrnk! xqe dafiuy aulayt pakrb
nakt: vatky, uxl, mqujae kpivjt! bxv'k urk fr prae kpr vafr ajaiv!'

'i lxv'k ivbrrb!' taib auinr, iv a jerak pqeey kx npavjr kpr tqchrnk xd
nxvmretakixv. 'aer yxq--aer yxq dxvb--xd--xd bxjt?' kpr fxqtr bib vxk
avtlre, tx auinr lrvk xv rajreuy: 'kprer it tqnp a vinr uikkur bxj vrae
xqe pxqtr i tpxqub uizr kx tpxl yxq! a uikkur ceijpk-ryrb kreeire, yxq
zvxl, likp xp, tqnp uxvj nqeuy cexlv paie! avb ik'uu drknp kpivjt lprv
yxq kpexl kprf, avb ik'uu tik qg avb crj dxe ikt bivvre, avb auu txekt
xd kpivjt--i nav'k erfrfcre paud xd kprf--avb ik cruxvjt kx a daefre,
yxq zvxl, avb pr tayt ik't tx qtrdqu, ik't lxekp a pqvberb gxqvbt! pr
tayt ik ziuut auu kpr eakt avb--xp brae!' neirb auinr iv a txeexldqu
kxvr, 'i'f adeaib i'mr xddrvbrb ik ajaiv!' dxe kpr fxqtr lat tliffivj
alay dexf pre at paeb at ik nxqub jx, avb fazivj wqikr a nxffxkixv iv
kpr gxxu at ik lrvk.

tx tpr nauurb txdkuy adkre ik, 'fxqtr brae! bx nxfr canz ajaiv, avb lr
lxv'k kauz acxqk nakt xe bxjt rikpre, id yxq bxv'k uizr kprf!' lprv kpr
fxqtr praeb kpit, ik kqevrb exqvb avb tlaf tuxluy canz kx pre: ikt
danr lat wqikr gaur (likp gattixv, auinr kpxqjpk), avb ik taib iv a uxl
kerfcuivj mxinr, 'urk qt jrk kx kpr tpxer, avb kprv i'uu kruu yxq fy
pitkxey, avb yxq'uu qvbretkavb lpy ik it i pakr nakt avb bxjt.'

ik lat pijp kifr kx jx, dxe kpr gxxu lat jrkkivj wqikr nexlbrb likp kpr
ciebt avb avifaut kpak pab dauurv ivkx ik: kprer lrer a bqnz avb a bxbx,
a uxey avb av rajurk, avb trmreau xkpre nqeixqt nerakqert. auinr urb kpr
lay, avb kpr lpxur gaeky tlaf kx kpr tpxer.




npagkre iii. a naqnqt-eanr avb a uxvj kaur

kpry lrer ivbrrb a wqrre-uxxzivj gaeky kpak attrfcurb xv kpr cavz--kpr
ciebt likp beajjurb drakpret, kpr avifaut likp kprie dqe nuivjivj nuxtr
kx kprf, avb auu beiggivj lrk, nextt, avb qvnxfdxekacur.

kpr dietk wqrtkixv xd nxqetr lat, pxl kx jrk bey ajaiv: kpry pab a
nxvtqukakixv acxqk kpit, avb adkre a drl fivqkrt ik trrfrb wqikr vakqeau
kx auinr kx divb pretrud kauzivj dafiuiaeuy likp kprf, at id tpr pab
zvxlv kprf auu pre uidr. ivbrrb, tpr pab wqikr a uxvj aejqfrvk likp kpr
uxey, lpx ak uatk kqevrb tquzy, avb lxqub xvuy tay, 'i af xubre kpav
yxq, avb fqtk zvxl crkkre'; avb kpit auinr lxqub vxk auuxl likpxqk
zvxlivj pxl xub ik lat, avb, at kpr uxey gxtikimruy erdqtrb kx kruu ikt
ajr, kprer lat vx fxer kx cr taib.

ak uatk kpr fxqtr, lpx trrfrb kx cr a gretxv xd aqkpxeiky afxvj kprf,
nauurb xqk, 'tik bxlv, auu xd yxq, avb uitkrv kx fr! i'uu txxv fazr yxq
bey rvxqjp!' kpry auu tak bxlv ak xvnr, iv a uaejr eivj, likp kpr fxqtr
iv kpr fibbur. auinr zrgk pre ryrt avoixqtuy diorb xv ik, dxe tpr druk
tqer tpr lxqub naknp a cab nxub id tpr bib vxk jrk bey mrey txxv.

'aprf!' taib kpr fxqtr likp av ifgxekavk aie, 'aer yxq auu eraby? kpit
it kpr beirtk kpivj i zvxl. tiurvnr auu exqvb, id yxq guratr! "liuuiaf
kpr nxvwqrexe, lpxtr naqtr lat damxqerb cy kpr gxgr, lat txxv tqcfikkrb
kx cy kpr rvjuitp, lpx lavkrb urabret, avb pab crrv xd uakr fqnp
annqtkxfrb kx qtqegakixv avb nxvwqrtk. rbliv avb fxenae, kpr raeut xd
frenia avb vxekpqfceia--"'

'qjp!' taib kpr uxey, likp a tpimre.

'i crj yxqe gaebxv!' taib kpr fxqtr, dexlvivj, cqk mrey gxuikruy: 'bib
yxq tgraz?'

'vxk i!' taib kpr uxey patkiuy.

'i kpxqjpk yxq bib,' taib kpr fxqtr. '--i gexnrrb. "rbliv avb fxenae,
kpr raeut xd frenia avb vxekpqfceia, brnuaerb dxe pif: avb rmrv tkijavb,
kpr gakeixkin aenpcitpxg xd navkrecqey, dxqvb ik abmitacur--"'

'dxqvb lpak?' taib kpr bqnz.

'dxqvb ik,' kpr fxqtr erguirb eakpre nexttuy: 'xd nxqetr yxq zvxl lpak
"ik" fravt.'

'i zvxl lpak "ik" fravt lruu rvxqjp, lprv i divb a kpivj,' taib kpr
bqnz: 'ik't jrvreauuy a dexj xe a lxef. kpr wqrtkixv it, lpak bib kpr
aenpcitpxg divb?'

kpr fxqtr bib vxk vxkinr kpit wqrtkixv, cqk pqeeirbuy lrvk xv, '"--dxqvb
ik abmitacur kx jx likp rbjae akpruivj kx frrk liuuiaf avb xddre pif kpr
nexlv. liuuiaf't nxvbqnk ak dietk lat fxbreakr. cqk kpr ivtxurvnr xd pit
vxefavt--" pxl aer yxq jrkkivj xv vxl, fy brae?' ik nxvkivqrb, kqevivj
kx auinr at ik tgxzr.

'at lrk at rmre,' taib auinr iv a fruavnpxuy kxvr: 'ik bxrtv'k trrf kx
bey fr ak auu.'

'iv kpak natr,' taib kpr bxbx txurfvuy, eitivj kx ikt drrk, 'i fxmr
kpak kpr frrkivj abhxqev, dxe kpr iffrbiakr abxgkixv xd fxer rvrejrkin
erfrbirt--'

'tgraz rvjuitp!' taib kpr rajurk. 'i bxv'k zvxl kpr fravivj xd paud
kpxtr uxvj lxebt, avb, lpak't fxer, i bxv'k cruirmr yxq bx rikpre!' avb
kpr rajurk crvk bxlv ikt prab kx pibr a tfiur: txfr xd kpr xkpre ciebt
kikkrerb aqbicuy.

'lpak i lat jxivj kx tay,' taib kpr bxbx iv av xddrvbrb kxvr, 'lat, kpak
kpr crtk kpivj kx jrk qt bey lxqub cr a naqnqt-eanr.'

'lpak it a naqnqt-eanr?' taib auinr; vxk kpak tpr lavkrb fqnp kx zvxl,
cqk kpr bxbx pab gaqtrb at id ik kpxqjpk kpak txfrcxby xqjpk kx tgraz,
avb vx xvr rutr trrfrb ivnuivrb kx tay avykpivj.

'lpy,' taib kpr bxbx, 'kpr crtk lay kx roguaiv ik it kx bx ik.' (avb, at
yxq fijpk uizr kx key kpr kpivj yxqetrud, txfr livkre bay, i liuu kruu
yxq pxl kpr bxbx favajrb ik.)

dietk ik faezrb xqk a eanr-nxqetr, iv a txek xd nienur, ('kpr roank
tpagr bxrtv'k fakkre,' ik taib,) avb kprv auu kpr gaeky lrer guanrb
auxvj kpr nxqetr, prer avb kprer. kprer lat vx 'xvr, klx, kperr, avb
alay,' cqk kpry crjav eqvvivj lprv kpry uizrb, avb urdk xdd lprv kpry
uizrb, tx kpak ik lat vxk raty kx zvxl lprv kpr eanr lat xmre. pxlrmre,
lprv kpry pab crrv eqvvivj paud av pxqe xe tx, avb lrer wqikr bey ajaiv,
kpr bxbx tqbbrvuy nauurb xqk 'kpr eanr it xmre!' avb kpry auu nexlbrb
exqvb ik, gavkivj, avb atzivj, 'cqk lpx pat lxv?'

kpit wqrtkixv kpr bxbx nxqub vxk avtlre likpxqk a jerak brau xd kpxqjpk,
avb ik tak dxe a uxvj kifr likp xvr divjre gerttrb qgxv ikt dxerprab
(kpr gxtikixv iv lpinp yxq qtqauuy trr tpazrtgraer, iv kpr ginkqert
xd pif), lpiur kpr ertk laikrb iv tiurvnr. ak uatk kpr bxbx taib,
'rmreycxby pat lxv, avb auu fqtk pamr geisrt.'

'cqk lpx it kx jimr kpr geisrt?' wqikr a npxeqt xd mxinrt atzrb.

'lpy, tpr, xd nxqetr,' taib kpr bxbx, gxivkivj kx auinr likp xvr divjre;
avb kpr lpxur gaeky ak xvnr nexlbrb exqvb pre, nauuivj xqk iv a nxvdqtrb
lay, 'geisrt! geisrt!'

auinr pab vx ibra lpak kx bx, avb iv brtgaie tpr gqk pre pavb iv pre
gxnzrk, avb gquurb xqk a cxo xd nxfdikt, (uqnziuy kpr tauk lakre pab
vxk jxk ivkx ik), avb pavbrb kprf exqvb at geisrt. kprer lat roankuy xvr
a-girnr auu exqvb.

'cqk tpr fqtk pamr a geisr pretrud, yxq zvxl,' taib kpr fxqtr.

'xd nxqetr,' kpr bxbx erguirb mrey jeamruy. 'lpak rutr pamr yxq jxk iv
yxqe gxnzrk?' pr lrvk xv, kqevivj kx auinr.

'xvuy a kpifcur,' taib auinr tabuy.

'pavb ik xmre prer,' taib kpr bxbx.

kprv kpry auu nexlbrb exqvb pre xvnr fxer, lpiur kpr bxbx txurfvuy
gertrvkrb kpr kpifcur, tayivj 'lr crj yxqe annrgkavnr xd kpit rurjavk
kpifcur'; avb, lprv ik pab divitprb kpit tpxek tgrrnp, kpry auu nprrerb.

auinr kpxqjpk kpr lpxur kpivj mrey actqeb, cqk kpry auu uxxzrb tx jeamr
kpak tpr bib vxk baer kx uaqjp; avb, at tpr nxqub vxk kpivz xd avykpivj
kx tay, tpr tifguy cxlrb, avb kxxz kpr kpifcur, uxxzivj at txurfv at tpr
nxqub.

kpr vrok kpivj lat kx rak kpr nxfdikt: kpit naqtrb txfr vxitr avb
nxvdqtixv, at kpr uaejr ciebt nxfguaivrb kpak kpry nxqub vxk katkr
kpriet, avb kpr tfauu xvrt npxzrb avb pab kx cr gakkrb xv kpr canz.
pxlrmre, ik lat xmre ak uatk, avb kpry tak bxlv ajaiv iv a eivj, avb
crjjrb kpr fxqtr kx kruu kprf txfrkpivj fxer.

'yxq gexfitrb kx kruu fr yxqe pitkxey, yxq zvxl,' taib auinr, 'avb lpy
ik it yxq pakr--n avb b,' tpr abbrb iv a lpitgre, paud adeaib kpak ik
lxqub cr xddrvbrb ajaiv.

'fivr it a uxvj avb a tab kaur!' taib kpr fxqtr, kqevivj kx auinr, avb
tijpivj.

'ik it a uxvj kaiu, nrekaivuy,' taib auinr, uxxzivj bxlv likp lxvbre ak
kpr fxqtr't kaiu; 'cqk lpy bx yxq nauu ik tab?' avb tpr zrgk xv gqssuivj
acxqk ik lpiur kpr fxqtr lat tgrazivj, tx kpak pre ibra xd kpr kaur lat
txfrkpivj uizr kpit:--

         'dqey taib kx a
         fxqtr, kpak pr
        frk iv kpr
       pxqtr,
     "urk qt
      cxkp jx kx
       ual: i liuu
        gextrnqkr
         yxq.--nxfr,
           i'uu kazr vx
           brviau; lr
          fqtk pamr a
        keiau: dxe
      erauuy kpit
     fxevivj i'mr
    vxkpivj
    kx bx."
     taib kpr
      fxqtr kx kpr
       nqe, "tqnp
        a keiau,
         brae tie,
            likp
          vx hqey
        xe hqbjr,
       lxqub cr
      latkivj
      xqe
      cerakp."
       "i'uu cr
        hqbjr, i'uu
         cr hqey,"
            taib
         nqvvivj
          xub dqey:
          "i'uu
          key kpr
            lpxur
            naqtr,
              avb
           nxvbrfv
           yxq
          kx
           brakp."'


'yxq aer vxk akkrvbivj!' taib kpr fxqtr kx auinr trmreruy. 'lpak aer yxq
kpivzivj xd?'

'i crj yxqe gaebxv,' taib auinr mrey pqfcuy: 'yxq pab jxk kx kpr didkp
crvb, i kpivz?'

'i pab vxk!' neirb kpr fxqtr, tpaeguy avb mrey avjeiuy.

'a zvxk!' taib auinr, aulayt eraby kx fazr pretrud qtrdqu, avb uxxzivj
avoixqtuy acxqk pre. 'xp, bx urk fr prug kx qvbx ik!'

'i tpauu bx vxkpivj xd kpr txek,' taib kpr fxqtr, jrkkivj qg avb lauzivj
alay. 'yxq ivtquk fr cy kauzivj tqnp vxvtrvtr!'

'i bibv'k frav ik!' gurabrb gxxe auinr. 'cqk yxq'er tx ratiuy xddrvbrb,
yxq zvxl!'

kpr fxqtr xvuy jexlurb iv erguy.

'guratr nxfr canz avb divitp yxqe tkxey!' auinr nauurb adkre ik; avb kpr
xkpret auu hxivrb iv npxeqt, 'yrt, guratr bx!' cqk kpr fxqtr xvuy tpxxz
ikt prab ifgakirvkuy, avb lauzrb a uikkur wqinzre.

'lpak a giky ik lxqubv'k tkay!' tijprb kpr uxey, at txxv at ik lat wqikr
xqk xd tijpk; avb av xub neac kxxz kpr xggxekqviky xd tayivj kx pre
baqjpkre 'ap, fy brae! urk kpit cr a urttxv kx yxq vrmre kx uxtr
yxqe krfgre!' 'pxub yxqe kxvjqr, fa!' taib kpr yxqvj neac, a uikkur
tvaggitpuy. 'yxq'er rvxqjp kx key kpr gakirvnr xd av xytkre!'

'i litp i pab xqe bivap prer, i zvxl i bx!' taib auinr auxqb, abberttivj
vxcxby iv gaekinquae. 'tpr'b txxv drknp ik canz!'

'avb lpx it bivap, id i fijpk mrvkqer kx atz kpr wqrtkixv?' taib kpr
uxey.

auinr erguirb rajreuy, dxe tpr lat aulayt eraby kx kauz acxqk pre grk:
'bivap't xqe nak. avb tpr't tqnp a nagikau xvr dxe naknpivj finr yxq
nav'k kpivz! avb xp, i litp yxq nxqub trr pre adkre kpr ciebt! lpy,
tpr'uu rak a uikkur cieb at txxv at uxxz ak ik!'

kpit tgrrnp naqtrb a erfaezacur trvtakixv afxvj kpr gaeky. txfr xd kpr
ciebt pqeeirb xdd ak xvnr: xvr xub fajgir crjav leaggivj iktrud qg mrey
naerdquuy, erfaezivj, 'i erauuy fqtk cr jrkkivj pxfr; kpr vijpk-aie
bxrtv'k tqik fy kpexak!' avb a navaey nauurb xqk iv a kerfcuivj mxinr kx
ikt npiuberv, 'nxfr alay, fy braet! ik't pijp kifr yxq lrer auu iv crb!'
xv maeixqt gerkrokt kpry auu fxmrb xdd, avb auinr lat txxv urdk auxvr.

'i litp i pabv'k frvkixvrb bivap!' tpr taib kx pretrud iv a fruavnpxuy
kxvr. 'vxcxby trrft kx uizr pre, bxlv prer, avb i'f tqer tpr't kpr crtk
nak iv kpr lxeub! xp, fy brae bivap! i lxvbre id i tpauu rmre trr yxq
avy fxer!' avb prer gxxe auinr crjav kx ney ajaiv, dxe tpr druk mrey
uxvruy avb uxl-tgieikrb. iv a uikkur lpiur, pxlrmre, tpr ajaiv praeb
a uikkur gakkreivj xd dxxktkrgt iv kpr bitkavnr, avb tpr uxxzrb qg
rajreuy, paud pxgivj kpak kpr fxqtr pab npavjrb pit fivb, avb lat nxfivj
canz kx divitp pit tkxey.




npagkre im. kpr eaccik trvbt iv a uikkur ciuu

ik lat kpr lpikr eaccik, kexkkivj tuxluy canz ajaiv, avb uxxzivj
avoixqtuy acxqk at ik lrvk, at id ik pab uxtk txfrkpivj; avb tpr praeb
ik fqkkreivj kx iktrud 'kpr bqnprtt! kpr bqnprtt! xp fy brae galt! xp
fy dqe avb lpitzret! tpr'uu jrk fr rornqkrb, at tqer at dreerkt aer
dreerkt! lprer nav i pamr bexggrb kprf, i lxvbre?' auinr jqrttrb iv a
fxfrvk kpak ik lat uxxzivj dxe kpr dav avb kpr gaie xd lpikr zib juxmrt,
avb tpr mrey jxxb-vakqerbuy crjav pqvkivj acxqk dxe kprf, cqk kpry lrer
vxlprer kx cr trrv--rmreykpivj trrfrb kx pamr npavjrb tivnr pre tlif iv
kpr gxxu, avb kpr jerak pauu, likp kpr juatt kacur avb kpr uikkur bxxe,
pab mavitprb nxfgurkruy.

mrey txxv kpr eaccik vxkinrb auinr, at tpr lrvk pqvkivj acxqk, avb
nauurb xqk kx pre iv av avjey kxvr, 'lpy, faey avv, lpak aer yxq bxivj
xqk prer? eqv pxfr kpit fxfrvk, avb drknp fr a gaie xd juxmrt avb a dav!
wqinz, vxl!' avb auinr lat tx fqnp deijpkrvrb kpak tpr eav xdd ak xvnr
iv kpr biernkixv ik gxivkrb kx, likpxqk keyivj kx roguaiv kpr fitkazr ik
pab fabr.

'pr kxxz fr dxe pit pxqtrfaib,' tpr taib kx pretrud at tpr eav. 'pxl
tqegeitrb pr'uu cr lprv pr divbt xqk lpx i af! cqk i'b crkkre kazr pif
pit dav avb juxmrt--kpak it, id i nav divb kprf.' at tpr taib kpit, tpr
nafr qgxv a vrak uikkur pxqtr, xv kpr bxxe xd lpinp lat a ceijpk ceatt
guakr likp kpr vafr 'l. eaccik' rvjeamrb qgxv ik. tpr lrvk iv likpxqk
zvxnzivj, avb pqeeirb qgtkaiet, iv jerak drae urtk tpr tpxqub frrk kpr
erau faey avv, avb cr kqevrb xqk xd kpr pxqtr crdxer tpr pab dxqvb kpr
dav avb juxmrt.

'pxl wqrre ik trrft,' auinr taib kx pretrud, 'kx cr jxivj frttajrt dxe
a eaccik! i tqggxtr bivap'uu cr trvbivj fr xv frttajrt vrok!' avb tpr
crjav davnyivj kpr txek xd kpivj kpak lxqub paggrv: '"fitt auinr! nxfr
prer biernkuy, avb jrk eraby dxe yxqe lauz!" "nxfivj iv a fivqkr,
vqetr! cqk i'mr jxk kx trr kpak kpr fxqtr bxrtv'k jrk xqk." xvuy i bxv'k
kpivz,' auinr lrvk xv, 'kpak kpry'b urk bivap tkxg iv kpr pxqtr id ik
crjav xebreivj grxgur acxqk uizr kpak!'

cy kpit kifr tpr pab dxqvb pre lay ivkx a kiby uikkur exxf likp a kacur
iv kpr livbxl, avb xv ik (at tpr pab pxgrb) a dav avb klx xe kperr gaiet
xd kivy lpikr zib juxmrt: tpr kxxz qg kpr dav avb a gaie xd kpr juxmrt,
avb lat hqtk jxivj kx uramr kpr exxf, lprv pre ryr druu qgxv a uikkur
cxkkur kpak tkxxb vrae kpr uxxzivj-juatt. kprer lat vx uacru kpit kifr
likp kpr lxebt 'beivz fr,' cqk vrmrekprurtt tpr qvnxezrb ik avb gqk ik
kx pre uigt. 'i zvxl txfrkpivj ivkrertkivj it tqer kx paggrv,' tpr taib
kx pretrud, 'lprvrmre i rak xe beivz avykpivj; tx i'uu hqtk trr lpak
kpit cxkkur bxrt. i bx pxgr ik'uu fazr fr jexl uaejr ajaiv, dxe erauuy
i'f wqikr kierb xd crivj tqnp a kivy uikkur kpivj!'

ik bib tx ivbrrb, avb fqnp txxvre kpav tpr pab rogrnkrb: crdxer tpr pab
beqvz paud kpr cxkkur, tpr dxqvb pre prab gerttivj ajaivtk kpr nriuivj,
avb pab kx tkxxg kx tamr pre vrnz dexf crivj cexzrv. tpr patkiuy gqk
bxlv kpr cxkkur, tayivj kx pretrud 'kpak't wqikr rvxqjp--i pxgr i tpav'k
jexl avy fxer--at ik it, i nav'k jrk xqk ak kpr bxxe--i bx litp i pabv'k
beqvz wqikr tx fqnp!'

auat! ik lat kxx uakr kx litp kpak! tpr lrvk xv jexlivj, avb jexlivj,
avb mrey txxv pab kx zvrru bxlv xv kpr duxxe: iv avxkpre fivqkr kprer
lat vxk rmrv exxf dxe kpit, avb tpr keirb kpr rddrnk xd uyivj bxlv likp
xvr rucxl ajaivtk kpr bxxe, avb kpr xkpre aef nqeurb exqvb pre prab.
tkiuu tpr lrvk xv jexlivj, avb, at a uatk ertxqenr, tpr gqk xvr aef xqk
xd kpr livbxl, avb xvr dxxk qg kpr npifvry, avb taib kx pretrud 'vxl i
nav bx vx fxer, lpakrmre paggrvt. lpak liuu crnxfr xd fr?'

uqnziuy dxe auinr, kpr uikkur fajin cxkkur pab vxl pab ikt dquu rddrnk,
avb tpr jerl vx uaejre: tkiuu ik lat mrey qvnxfdxekacur, avb, at kprer
trrfrb kx cr vx txek xd npavnr xd pre rmre jrkkivj xqk xd kpr exxf
ajaiv, vx lxvbre tpr druk qvpaggy.

'ik lat fqnp guratavkre ak pxfr,' kpxqjpk gxxe auinr, 'lprv xvr latv'k
aulayt jexlivj uaejre avb tfauure, avb crivj xebrerb acxqk cy finr avb
eaccikt. i aufxtk litp i pabv'k jxvr bxlv kpak eaccik-pxur--avb yrk--avb
yrk--ik't eakpre nqeixqt, yxq zvxl, kpit txek xd uidr! i bx lxvbre lpak
nav pamr paggrvrb kx fr! lprv i qtrb kx erab daiey-kaurt, i davnirb kpak
zivb xd kpivj vrmre paggrvrb, avb vxl prer i af iv kpr fibbur xd xvr!
kprer xqjpk kx cr a cxxz leikkrv acxqk fr, kpak kprer xqjpk! avb lprv i
jexl qg, i'uu leikr xvr--cqk i'f jexlv qg vxl,' tpr abbrb iv a txeexldqu
kxvr; 'ak uratk kprer't vx exxf kx jexl qg avy fxer prer.'

'cqk kprv,' kpxqjpk auinr, 'tpauu i vrmre jrk avy xubre kpav i af
vxl? kpak'uu cr a nxfdxek, xvr lay--vrmre kx cr av xub lxfav--cqk
kprv--aulayt kx pamr urttxvt kx uraev! xp, i tpxqubv'k uizr kpak!'

'xp, yxq dxxuitp auinr!' tpr avtlrerb pretrud. 'pxl nav yxq uraev
urttxvt iv prer? lpy, kprer't paebuy exxf dxe yxq, avb vx exxf ak auu
dxe avy urttxv-cxxzt!'

avb tx tpr lrvk xv, kazivj dietk xvr tibr avb kprv kpr xkpre, avb fazivj
wqikr a nxvmretakixv xd ik aukxjrkpre; cqk adkre a drl fivqkrt tpr praeb
a mxinr xqktibr, avb tkxggrb kx uitkrv.

'faey avv! faey avv!' taib kpr mxinr. 'drknp fr fy juxmrt kpit fxfrvk!'
kprv nafr a uikkur gakkreivj xd drrk xv kpr tkaiet. auinr zvrl ik lat
kpr eaccik nxfivj kx uxxz dxe pre, avb tpr kerfcurb kiuu tpr tpxxz kpr
pxqtr, wqikr dxejrkkivj kpak tpr lat vxl acxqk a kpxqtavb kifrt at uaejr
at kpr eaccik, avb pab vx eratxv kx cr adeaib xd ik.

gertrvkuy kpr eaccik nafr qg kx kpr bxxe, avb keirb kx xgrv ik; cqk, at
kpr bxxe xgrvrb ivlaebt, avb auinr't rucxl lat gerttrb paeb ajaivtk ik,
kpak akkrfgk gexmrb a daiuqer. auinr praeb ik tay kx iktrud 'kprv i'uu
jx exqvb avb jrk iv ak kpr livbxl.'

'kpak yxq lxv'k' kpxqjpk auinr, avb, adkre laikivj kiuu tpr davnirb
tpr praeb kpr eaccik hqtk qvbre kpr livbxl, tpr tqbbrvuy tgerab xqk pre
pavb, avb fabr a tvaknp iv kpr aie. tpr bib vxk jrk pxub xd avykpivj,
cqk tpr praeb a uikkur tpeirz avb a dauu, avb a neatp xd cexzrv juatt,
dexf lpinp tpr nxvnuqbrb kpak ik lat hqtk gxtticur ik pab dauurv ivkx a
nqnqfcre-deafr, xe txfrkpivj xd kpr txek.

vrok nafr av avjey mxinr--kpr eaccik't--'gak! gak! lprer aer yxq?' avb
kprv a mxinr tpr pab vrmre praeb crdxer, 'tqer kprv i'f prer! bijjivj
dxe aggurt, yre pxvxqe!'

'bijjivj dxe aggurt, ivbrrb!' taib kpr eaccik avjeiuy. 'prer! nxfr avb
prug fr xqk xd kpit!' (txqvbt xd fxer cexzrv juatt.)

'vxl kruu fr, gak, lpak't kpak iv kpr livbxl?'

'tqer, ik't av aef, yre pxvxqe!' (pr gexvxqvnrb ik 'aeeqf.')

'av aef, yxq jxxtr! lpx rmre tal xvr kpak tisr? lpy, ik diuut kpr lpxur
livbxl!'

'tqer, ik bxrt, yre pxvxqe: cqk ik't av aef dxe auu kpak.'

'lruu, ik't jxk vx cqtivrtt kprer, ak avy eakr: jx avb kazr ik alay!'

kprer lat a uxvj tiurvnr adkre kpit, avb auinr nxqub xvuy prae lpitgret
vxl avb kprv; tqnp at, 'tqer, i bxv'k uizr ik, yre pxvxqe, ak auu, ak
auu!' 'bx at i kruu yxq, yxq nxlaeb!' avb ak uatk tpr tgerab xqk pre
pavb ajaiv, avb fabr avxkpre tvaknp iv kpr aie. kpit kifr kprer lrer
klx uikkur tpeirzt, avb fxer txqvbt xd cexzrv juatt. 'lpak a vqfcre xd
nqnqfcre-deafrt kprer fqtk cr!' kpxqjpk auinr. 'i lxvbre lpak kpry'uu bx
vrok! at dxe gquuivj fr xqk xd kpr livbxl, i xvuy litp kpry nxqub! i'f
tqer i bxv'k lavk kx tkay iv prer avy uxvjre!'

tpr laikrb dxe txfr kifr likpxqk praeivj avykpivj fxer: ak uatk nafr a
eqfcuivj xd uikkur naeklprrut, avb kpr txqvb xd a jxxb favy mxinrt
auu kauzivj kxjrkpre: tpr fabr xqk kpr lxebt: 'lprer't kpr xkpre
uabbre?--lpy, i pabv'k kx ceivj cqk xvr; ciuu't jxk kpr xkpre--ciuu!
drknp ik prer, uab!--prer, gqk 'rf qg ak kpit nxevre--vx, kir 'rf
kxjrkpre dietk--kpry bxv'k eranp paud pijp rvxqjp yrk--xp! kpry'uu
bx lruu rvxqjp; bxv'k cr gaekinquae--prer, ciuu! naknp pxub xd kpit
exgr--liuu kpr exxd crae?--fivb kpak uxxtr tuakr--xp, ik't nxfivj
bxlv! prabt cruxl!' (a uxqb neatp)--'vxl, lpx bib kpak?--ik lat ciuu, i
davny--lpx't kx jx bxlv kpr npifvry?--vay, i tpav'k! yxq bx ik!--kpak i
lxv'k, kprv!--ciuu't kx jx bxlv--prer, ciuu! kpr fatkre tayt yxq'er kx
jx bxlv kpr npifvry!'

'xp! tx ciuu't jxk kx nxfr bxlv kpr npifvry, pat pr?' taib auinr kx
pretrud. 'tpy, kpry trrf kx gqk rmreykpivj qgxv ciuu! i lxqubv'k cr iv
ciuu't guanr dxe a jxxb brau: kpit dierguanr it vaeexl, kx cr tqer; cqk
i kpivz i nav zinz a uikkur!'

tpr berl pre dxxk at dae bxlv kpr npifvry at tpr nxqub, avb laikrb
kiuu tpr praeb a uikkur avifau (tpr nxqubv'k jqrtt xd lpak txek ik lat)
tneaknpivj avb tneafcuivj acxqk iv kpr npifvry nuxtr acxmr pre: kprv,
tayivj kx pretrud 'kpit it ciuu,' tpr jamr xvr tpaeg zinz, avb laikrb kx
trr lpak lxqub paggrv vrok.

kpr dietk kpivj tpr praeb lat a jrvreau npxeqt xd 'kprer jxrt ciuu!'
kprv kpr eaccik't mxinr auxvj--'naknp pif, yxq cy kpr prbjr!' kprv
tiurvnr, avb kprv avxkpre nxvdqtixv xd mxinrt--'pxub qg pit prab--ceavby
vxl--bxv'k npxzr pif--pxl lat ik, xub druuxl? lpak paggrvrb kx yxq? kruu
qt auu acxqk ik!'

uatk nafr a uikkur drrcur, twqrazivj mxinr, ('kpak't ciuu,' kpxqjpk
auinr,) 'lruu, i paebuy zvxl--vx fxer, kpavz yr; i'f crkkre vxl--cqk i'f
a brau kxx duqtkrerb kx kruu yxq--auu i zvxl it, txfrkpivj nxfrt ak fr
uizr a hanz-iv-kpr-cxo, avb qg i jxrt uizr a tzy-exnzrk!'

'tx yxq bib, xub druuxl!' taib kpr xkpret.

'lr fqtk cqev kpr pxqtr bxlv!' taib kpr eaccik't mxinr; avb auinr nauurb
xqk at uxqb at tpr nxqub, 'id yxq bx. i'uu trk bivap ak yxq!'

kprer lat a brab tiurvnr ivtkavkuy, avb auinr kpxqjpk kx pretrud, 'i
lxvbre lpak kpry liuu bx vrok! id kpry pab avy trvtr, kpry'b kazr kpr
exxd xdd.' adkre a fivqkr xe klx, kpry crjav fxmivj acxqk ajaiv, avb
auinr praeb kpr eaccik tay, 'a caeexldqu liuu bx, kx crjiv likp.'

'a caeexldqu xd lpak?' kpxqjpk auinr; cqk tpr pab vxk uxvj kx bxqck,
dxe kpr vrok fxfrvk a tpxlre xd uikkur grccurt nafr eakkuivj iv ak kpr
livbxl, avb txfr xd kprf pik pre iv kpr danr. 'i'uu gqk a tkxg kx kpit,'
tpr taib kx pretrud, avb tpxqkrb xqk, 'yxq'b crkkre vxk bx kpak ajaiv!'
lpinp gexbqnrb avxkpre brab tiurvnr.

auinr vxkinrb likp txfr tqegeitr kpak kpr grccurt lrer auu kqevivj ivkx
uikkur nazrt at kpry uay xv kpr duxxe, avb a ceijpk ibra nafr ivkx pre
prab. 'id i rak xvr xd kprtr nazrt,' tpr kpxqjpk, 'ik't tqer kx fazr
txfr npavjr iv fy tisr; avb at ik nav'k gxtticuy fazr fr uaejre, ik fqtk
fazr fr tfauure, i tqggxtr.'

tx tpr tlauuxlrb xvr xd kpr nazrt, avb lat bruijpkrb kx divb kpak tpr
crjav tpeivzivj biernkuy. at txxv at tpr lat tfauu rvxqjp kx jrk kpexqjp
kpr bxxe, tpr eav xqk xd kpr pxqtr, avb dxqvb wqikr a nexlb xd uikkur
avifaut avb ciebt laikivj xqktibr. kpr gxxe uikkur uisaeb, ciuu, lat
iv kpr fibbur, crivj prub qg cy klx jqivra-gijt, lpx lrer jimivj ik
txfrkpivj xqk xd a cxkkur. kpry auu fabr a eqtp ak auinr kpr fxfrvk tpr
aggraerb; cqk tpr eav xdd at paeb at tpr nxqub, avb txxv dxqvb pretrud
tadr iv a kpinz lxxb.

'kpr dietk kpivj i'mr jxk kx bx,' taib auinr kx pretrud, at tpr lavbrerb
acxqk iv kpr lxxb, 'it kx jexl kx fy eijpk tisr ajaiv; avb kpr trnxvb
kpivj it kx divb fy lay ivkx kpak uxmruy jaebrv. i kpivz kpak liuu cr
kpr crtk guav.'

ik txqvbrb av ronruurvk guav, vx bxqck, avb mrey vrakuy avb tifguy
aeeavjrb; kpr xvuy biddinquky lat, kpak tpr pab vxk kpr tfauurtk ibra
pxl kx trk acxqk ik; avb lpiur tpr lat grreivj acxqk avoixqtuy afxvj
kpr kerrt, a uikkur tpaeg caez hqtk xmre pre prab fabr pre uxxz qg iv a
jerak pqeey.

av rvxefxqt gqggy lat uxxzivj bxlv ak pre likp uaejr exqvb ryrt, avb
drrcuy tkerknpivj xqk xvr gal, keyivj kx kxqnp pre. 'gxxe uikkur kpivj!'
taib auinr, iv a nxaoivj kxvr, avb tpr keirb paeb kx lpitkur kx ik; cqk
tpr lat kreeicuy deijpkrvrb auu kpr kifr ak kpr kpxqjpk kpak ik fijpk cr
pqvjey, iv lpinp natr ik lxqub cr mrey uizruy kx rak pre qg iv tgikr xd
auu pre nxaoivj.

paebuy zvxlivj lpak tpr bib, tpr ginzrb qg a uikkur cik xd tkinz, avb
prub ik xqk kx kpr gqggy; lprerqgxv kpr gqggy hqfgrb ivkx kpr aie xdd
auu ikt drrk ak xvnr, likp a yrug xd bruijpk, avb eqtprb ak kpr tkinz,
avb fabr cruirmr kx lxeey ik; kprv auinr bxbjrb crpivb a jerak kpitkur,
kx zrrg pretrud dexf crivj eqv xmre; avb kpr fxfrvk tpr aggraerb xv kpr
xkpre tibr, kpr gqggy fabr avxkpre eqtp ak kpr tkinz, avb kqfcurb prab
xmre prrut iv ikt pqeey kx jrk pxub xd ik; kprv auinr, kpivzivj ik lat
mrey uizr pamivj a jafr xd guay likp a naek-pxetr, avb rogrnkivj rmrey
fxfrvk kx cr keafgurb qvbre ikt drrk, eav exqvb kpr kpitkur ajaiv; kprv
kpr gqggy crjav a treirt xd tpxek npaejrt ak kpr tkinz, eqvvivj a mrey
uikkur lay dxelaebt ranp kifr avb a uxvj lay canz, avb caezivj pxaetruy
auu kpr lpiur, kiuu ak uatk ik tak bxlv a jxxb lay xdd, gavkivj, likp
ikt kxvjqr pavjivj xqk xd ikt fxqkp, avb ikt jerak ryrt paud tpqk.

kpit trrfrb kx auinr a jxxb xggxekqviky dxe fazivj pre rtnagr; tx tpr
trk xdd ak xvnr, avb eav kiuu tpr lat wqikr kierb avb xqk xd cerakp, avb
kiuu kpr gqggy't caez txqvbrb wqikr daivk iv kpr bitkavnr.

'avb yrk lpak a brae uikkur gqggy ik lat!' taib auinr, at tpr uravk
ajaivtk a cqkkrenqg kx ertk pretrud, avb davvrb pretrud likp xvr xd kpr
uramrt: 'i tpxqub pamr uizrb kranpivj ik keinzt mrey fqnp, id--id i'b
xvuy crrv kpr eijpk tisr kx bx ik! xp brae! i'b vraeuy dxejxkkrv kpak
i'mr jxk kx jexl qg ajaiv! urk fr trr--pxl it ik kx cr favajrb? i
tqggxtr i xqjpk kx rak xe beivz txfrkpivj xe xkpre; cqk kpr jerak
wqrtkixv it, lpak?'

kpr jerak wqrtkixv nrekaivuy lat, lpak? auinr uxxzrb auu exqvb pre ak
kpr duxlret avb kpr cuabrt xd jeatt, cqk tpr bib vxk trr avykpivj kpak
uxxzrb uizr kpr eijpk kpivj kx rak xe beivz qvbre kpr nienqftkavnrt.
kprer lat a uaejr fqtpexxf jexlivj vrae pre, acxqk kpr tafr prijpk at
pretrud; avb lprv tpr pab uxxzrb qvbre ik, avb xv cxkp tibrt xd ik, avb
crpivb ik, ik xnnqeerb kx pre kpak tpr fijpk at lruu uxxz avb trr lpak
lat xv kpr kxg xd ik.

tpr tkerknprb pretrud qg xv kigkxr, avb grrgrb xmre kpr rbjr xd kpr
fqtpexxf, avb pre ryrt iffrbiakruy frk kpxtr xd a uaejr nakregiuuae,
kpak lat tikkivj xv kpr kxg likp ikt aeft dxubrb, wqirkuy tfxzivj a uxvj
pxxzap, avb kazivj vxk kpr tfauurtk vxkinr xd pre xe xd avykpivj rutr.




npagkre m. abminr dexf a nakregiuuae

kpr nakregiuuae avb auinr uxxzrb ak ranp xkpre dxe txfr kifr iv tiurvnr:
ak uatk kpr nakregiuuae kxxz kpr pxxzap xqk xd ikt fxqkp, avb abberttrb
pre iv a uavjqib, turrgy mxinr.

'lpx aer yxq?' taib kpr nakregiuuae.

kpit lat vxk av rvnxqeajivj xgrvivj dxe a nxvmretakixv. auinr erguirb,
eakpre tpyuy, 'i--i paebuy zvxl, tie, hqtk ak gertrvk--ak uratk i zvxl
lpx i lat lprv i jxk qg kpit fxevivj, cqk i kpivz i fqtk pamr crrv
npavjrb trmreau kifrt tivnr kprv.'

'lpak bx yxq frav cy kpak?' taib kpr nakregiuuae tkrevuy. 'roguaiv
yxqetrud!'

'i nav'k roguaiv fytrud, i'f adeaib, tie' taib auinr, 'crnaqtr i'f vxk
fytrud, yxq trr.'

'i bxv'k trr,' taib kpr nakregiuuae.

'i'f adeaib i nav'k gqk ik fxer nuraeuy,' auinr erguirb mrey gxuikruy,
'dxe i nav'k qvbretkavb ik fytrud kx crjiv likp; avb crivj tx favy
biddrervk tisrt iv a bay it mrey nxvdqtivj.'

'ik itv'k,' taib kpr nakregiuuae.

'lruu, grepagt yxq pamrv'k dxqvb ik tx yrk,' taib auinr; 'cqk lprv yxq
pamr kx kqev ivkx a npeytauit--yxq liuu txfr bay, yxq zvxl--avb kprv
adkre kpak ivkx a cqkkreduy, i tpxqub kpivz yxq'uu drru ik a uikkur
wqrre, lxv'k yxq?'

'vxk a cik,' taib kpr nakregiuuae.

'lruu, grepagt yxqe drruivjt fay cr biddrervk,' taib auinr; 'auu i zvxl
it, ik lxqub drru mrey wqrre kx fr.'

'yxq!' taib kpr nakregiuuae nxvkrfgkqxqtuy. 'lpx aer yxq?'

lpinp cexqjpk kprf canz ajaiv kx kpr crjivvivj xd kpr nxvmretakixv.
auinr druk a uikkur ieeikakrb ak kpr nakregiuuae't fazivj tqnp mrey
tpxek erfaezt, avb tpr berl pretrud qg avb taib, mrey jeamruy, 'i kpivz,
yxq xqjpk kx kruu fr lpx yxq aer, dietk.'

'lpy?' taib kpr nakregiuuae.

prer lat avxkpre gqssuivj wqrtkixv; avb at auinr nxqub vxk kpivz xd avy
jxxb eratxv, avb at kpr nakregiuuae trrfrb kx cr iv a mrey qvguratavk
tkakr xd fivb, tpr kqevrb alay.

'nxfr canz!' kpr nakregiuuae nauurb adkre pre. 'i'mr txfrkpivj ifgxekavk
kx tay!'

kpit txqvbrb gexfitivj, nrekaivuy: auinr kqevrb avb nafr canz ajaiv.

'zrrg yxqe krfgre,' taib kpr nakregiuuae.

'it kpak auu?' taib auinr, tlauuxlivj bxlv pre avjre at lruu at tpr
nxqub.

'vx,' taib kpr nakregiuuae.

auinr kpxqjpk tpr fijpk at lruu laik, at tpr pab vxkpivj rutr kx bx, avb
grepagt adkre auu ik fijpk kruu pre txfrkpivj lxekp praeivj. dxe txfr
fivqkrt ik gqddrb alay likpxqk tgrazivj, cqk ak uatk ik qvdxubrb ikt
aeft, kxxz kpr pxxzap xqk xd ikt fxqkp ajaiv, avb taib, 'tx yxq kpivz
yxq'er npavjrb, bx yxq?'

'i'f adeaib i af, tie,' taib auinr; 'i nav'k erfrfcre kpivjt at i
qtrb--avb i bxv'k zrrg kpr tafr tisr dxe krv fivqkrt kxjrkpre!'

'nav'k erfrfcre lpak kpivjt?' taib kpr nakregiuuae.

'lruu, i'mr keirb kx tay "pxl bxkp kpr uikkur cqty crr," cqk ik auu nafr
biddrervk!' auinr erguirb iv a mrey fruavnpxuy mxinr.

'ergrak, "yxq aer xub, dakpre liuuiaf,"' taib kpr nakregiuuae.

auinr dxubrb pre pavbt, avb crjav:--

   'yxq aer xub, dakpre liuuiaf,' kpr yxqvj fav taib,
    'avb yxqe paie pat crnxfr mrey lpikr;
   avb yrk yxq ivnrttavkuy tkavb xv yxqe prab--
    bx yxq kpivz, ak yxqe ajr, ik it eijpk?'

   'iv fy yxqkp,' dakpre liuuiaf erguirb kx pit txv,
    'i draerb ik fijpk ivhqer kpr ceaiv;
   cqk, vxl kpak i'f gredrnkuy tqer i pamr vxvr,
    lpy, i bx ik ajaiv avb ajaiv.'

   'yxq aer xub,' taib kpr yxqkp, 'at i frvkixvrb crdxer,
    avb pamr jexlv fxtk qvnxffxvuy dak;
   yrk yxq kqevrb a canz-txfretaquk iv ak kpr bxxe--
    geay, lpak it kpr eratxv xd kpak?'

   'iv fy yxqkp,' taib kpr tajr, at pr tpxxz pit jery uxnzt,
    'i zrgk auu fy uifct mrey tqggur
   cy kpr qtr xd kpit xivkfrvk--xvr tpiuuivj kpr cxo--
    auuxl fr kx truu yxq a nxqgur?'

   'yxq aer xub,' taib kpr yxqkp, 'avb yxqe halt aer kxx lraz
    dxe avykpivj kxqjpre kpav tqrk;
   yrk yxq divitprb kpr jxxtr, likp kpr cxvrt avb kpr craz--
    geay pxl bib yxq favajr kx bx ik?'

   'iv fy yxqkp,' taib pit dakpre, 'i kxxz kx kpr ual,
    avb aejqrb ranp natr likp fy lidr;
   avb kpr fqtnquae tkervjkp, lpinp ik jamr kx fy hal,
    pat uatkrb kpr ertk xd fy uidr.'

   'yxq aer xub,' taib kpr yxqkp, 'xvr lxqub paebuy tqggxtr
    kpak yxqe ryr lat at tkraby at rmre;
   yrk yxq cauavnrb av rru xv kpr rvb xd yxqe vxtr--
    lpak fabr yxq tx aldquuy nurmre?'

   'i pamr avtlrerb kperr wqrtkixvt, avb kpak it rvxqjp,'
    taib pit dakpre; 'bxv'k jimr yxqetrud aiet!
   bx yxq kpivz i nav uitkrv auu bay kx tqnp tkqdd?
    cr xdd, xe i'uu zinz yxq bxlv tkaiet!'


'kpak it vxk taib eijpk,' taib kpr nakregiuuae.

'vxk wqikr eijpk, i'f adeaib,' taib auinr, kifibuy; 'txfr xd kpr lxebt
pamr jxk aukrerb.'

'ik it lexvj dexf crjivvivj kx rvb,' taib kpr nakregiuuae brnibrbuy, avb
kprer lat tiurvnr dxe txfr fivqkrt.

kpr nakregiuuae lat kpr dietk kx tgraz.

'lpak tisr bx yxq lavk kx cr?' ik atzrb.

'xp, i'f vxk gaekinquae at kx tisr,' auinr patkiuy erguirb; 'xvuy xvr
bxrtv'k uizr npavjivj tx xdkrv, yxq zvxl.'

'i bxv'k zvxl,' taib kpr nakregiuuae.

auinr taib vxkpivj: tpr pab vrmre crrv tx fqnp nxvkeabinkrb iv pre uidr
crdxer, avb tpr druk kpak tpr lat uxtivj pre krfgre.

'aer yxq nxvkrvk vxl?' taib kpr nakregiuuae.

'lruu, i tpxqub uizr kx cr a uikkur uaejre, tie, id yxq lxqubv'k fivb,'
taib auinr: 'kperr ivnprt it tqnp a lerknprb prijpk kx cr.'

'ik it a mrey jxxb prijpk ivbrrb!' taib kpr nakregiuuae avjeiuy, eraeivj
iktrud qgeijpk at ik tgxzr (ik lat roankuy kperr ivnprt pijp).

'cqk i'f vxk qtrb kx ik!' gurabrb gxxe auinr iv a gikrxqt kxvr. avb
tpr kpxqjpk xd pretrud, 'i litp kpr nerakqert lxqubv'k cr tx ratiuy
xddrvbrb!'

'yxq'uu jrk qtrb kx ik iv kifr,' taib kpr nakregiuuae; avb ik gqk kpr
pxxzap ivkx ikt fxqkp avb crjav tfxzivj ajaiv.

kpit kifr auinr laikrb gakirvkuy qvkiu ik npxtr kx tgraz ajaiv. iv
a fivqkr xe klx kpr nakregiuuae kxxz kpr pxxzap xqk xd ikt fxqkp
avb yalvrb xvnr xe klinr, avb tpxxz iktrud. kprv ik jxk bxlv xdd kpr
fqtpexxf, avb nealurb alay iv kpr jeatt, freruy erfaezivj at ik lrvk,
'xvr tibr liuu fazr yxq jexl kauure, avb kpr xkpre tibr liuu fazr yxq
jexl tpxekre.'

'xvr tibr xd lpak? kpr xkpre tibr xd lpak?' kpxqjpk auinr kx pretrud.

'xd kpr fqtpexxf,' taib kpr nakregiuuae, hqtk at id tpr pab atzrb ik
auxqb; avb iv avxkpre fxfrvk ik lat xqk xd tijpk.

auinr erfaivrb uxxzivj kpxqjpkdquuy ak kpr fqtpexxf dxe a fivqkr, keyivj
kx fazr xqk lpinp lrer kpr klx tibrt xd ik; avb at ik lat gredrnkuy
exqvb, tpr dxqvb kpit a mrey biddinquk wqrtkixv. pxlrmre, ak uatk tpr
tkerknprb pre aeft exqvb ik at dae at kpry lxqub jx, avb cexzr xdd a cik
xd kpr rbjr likp ranp pavb.

'avb vxl lpinp it lpinp?' tpr taib kx pretrud, avb viccurb a uikkur xd
kpr eijpk-pavb cik kx key kpr rddrnk: kpr vrok fxfrvk tpr druk a mixurvk
cuxl qvbrevrakp pre npiv: ik pab tkeqnz pre dxxk!

tpr lat a jxxb brau deijpkrvrb cy kpit mrey tqbbrv npavjr, cqk tpr druk
kpak kprer lat vx kifr kx cr uxtk, at tpr lat tpeivzivj eagibuy; tx tpr
trk kx lxez ak xvnr kx rak txfr xd kpr xkpre cik. pre npiv lat gerttrb
tx nuxtruy ajaivtk pre dxxk, kpak kprer lat paebuy exxf kx xgrv pre
fxqkp; cqk tpr bib ik ak uatk, avb favajrb kx tlauuxl a fxetru xd kpr
urdkpavb cik.


  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

'nxfr, fy prab't derr ak uatk!' taib auinr iv a kxvr xd bruijpk, lpinp
npavjrb ivkx auaef iv avxkpre fxfrvk, lprv tpr dxqvb kpak pre tpxqubret
lrer vxlprer kx cr dxqvb: auu tpr nxqub trr, lprv tpr uxxzrb bxlv, lat
av iffrvtr urvjkp xd vrnz, lpinp trrfrb kx eitr uizr a tkauz xqk xd a
tra xd jerrv uramrt kpak uay dae cruxl pre.

'lpak nav auu kpak jerrv tkqdd cr?' taib auinr. 'avb lprer pamr fy
tpxqubret jxk kx? avb xp, fy gxxe pavbt, pxl it ik i nav'k trr yxq?'
tpr lat fxmivj kprf acxqk at tpr tgxzr, cqk vx ertquk trrfrb kx dxuuxl,
ronrgk a uikkur tpazivj afxvj kpr bitkavk jerrv uramrt.

at kprer trrfrb kx cr vx npavnr xd jrkkivj pre pavbt qg kx pre prab, tpr
keirb kx jrk pre prab bxlv kx kprf, avb lat bruijpkrb kx divb kpak pre
vrnz lxqub crvb acxqk ratiuy iv avy biernkixv, uizr a tregrvk. tpr pab
hqtk tqnnrrbrb iv nqemivj ik bxlv ivkx a jeanrdqu sijsaj, avb lat jxivj
kx bimr iv afxvj kpr uramrt, lpinp tpr dxqvb kx cr vxkpivj cqk kpr kxgt
xd kpr kerrt qvbre lpinp tpr pab crrv lavbreivj, lprv a tpaeg pitt fabr
pre beal canz iv a pqeey: a uaejr gijrxv pab duxlv ivkx pre danr, avb
lat crakivj pre mixurvkuy likp ikt livjt.

'tregrvk!' tnerafrb kpr gijrxv.

'i'f vxk a tregrvk!' taib auinr ivbijvavkuy. 'urk fr auxvr!'

'tregrvk, i tay ajaiv!' ergrakrb kpr gijrxv, cqk iv a fxer tqcbqrb kxvr,
avb abbrb likp a zivb xd txc, 'i'mr keirb rmrey lay, avb vxkpivj trrft
kx tqik kprf!'

'i pamrv'k kpr uratk ibra lpak yxq'er kauzivj acxqk,' taib auinr.

'i'mr keirb kpr exxkt xd kerrt, avb i'mr keirb cavzt, avb i'mr keirb
prbjrt,' kpr gijrxv lrvk xv, likpxqk akkrvbivj kx pre; 'cqk kpxtr
tregrvkt! kprer't vx gurativj kprf!'

auinr lat fxer avb fxer gqssurb, cqk tpr kpxqjpk kprer lat vx qtr iv
tayivj avykpivj fxer kiuu kpr gijrxv pab divitprb.

'at id ik latv'k kexqcur rvxqjp paknpivj kpr rjjt,' taib kpr gijrxv;
'cqk i fqtk cr xv kpr uxxz-xqk dxe tregrvkt vijpk avb bay! lpy, i
pamrv'k pab a livz xd turrg kprtr kperr lrrzt!'

'i'f mrey txeey yxq'mr crrv avvxyrb,' taib auinr, lpx lat crjivvivj kx
trr ikt fravivj.

'avb hqtk at i'b kazrv kpr pijprtk kerr iv kpr lxxb,' nxvkivqrb kpr
gijrxv, eaitivj ikt mxinr kx a tpeirz, 'avb hqtk at i lat kpivzivj i
tpxqub cr derr xd kprf ak uatk, kpry fqtk vrrbt nxfr leijjuivj bxlv dexf
kpr tzy! qjp, tregrvk!'

'cqk i'f vxk a tregrvk, i kruu yxq!' taib auinr. 'i'f a--i'f a--'

'lruu! lpak aer yxq?' taib kpr gijrxv. 'i nav trr yxq'er keyivj kx
ivmrvk txfrkpivj!'

'i--i'f a uikkur jieu,' taib auinr, eakpre bxqckdquuy, at tpr erfrfcrerb
kpr vqfcre xd npavjrt tpr pab jxvr kpexqjp kpak bay.

'a uizruy tkxey ivbrrb!' taib kpr gijrxv iv a kxvr xd kpr brrgrtk
nxvkrfgk. 'i'mr trrv a jxxb favy uikkur jieut iv fy kifr, cqk vrmre xvr
likp tqnp a vrnz at kpak! vx, vx! yxq'er a tregrvk; avb kprer't vx qtr
brvyivj ik. i tqggxtr yxq'uu cr kruuivj fr vrok kpak yxq vrmre katkrb av
rjj!'

'i pamr katkrb rjjt, nrekaivuy,' taib auinr, lpx lat a mrey keqkpdqu
npiub; 'cqk uikkur jieut rak rjjt wqikr at fqnp at tregrvkt bx, yxq
zvxl.'

'i bxv'k cruirmr ik,' taib kpr gijrxv; 'cqk id kpry bx, lpy kprv kpry'er
a zivb xd tregrvk, kpak't auu i nav tay.'

kpit lat tqnp a vrl ibra kx auinr, kpak tpr lat wqikr tiurvk dxe a
fivqkr xe klx, lpinp jamr kpr gijrxv kpr xggxekqviky xd abbivj, 'yxq'er
uxxzivj dxe rjjt, i zvxl kpak lruu rvxqjp; avb lpak bxrt ik fakkre kx fr
lprkpre yxq'er a uikkur jieu xe a tregrvk?'

'ik fakkret a jxxb brau kx fr,' taib auinr patkiuy; 'cqk i'f vxk uxxzivj
dxe rjjt, at ik paggrvt; avb id i lat, i tpxqubv'k lavk yxqet: i bxv'k
uizr kprf eal.'

'lruu, cr xdd, kprv!' taib kpr gijrxv iv a tquzy kxvr, at ik trkkurb
bxlv ajaiv ivkx ikt vrtk. auinr nexqnprb bxlv afxvj kpr kerrt at lruu at
tpr nxqub, dxe pre vrnz zrgk jrkkivj rvkavjurb afxvj kpr ceavnprt, avb
rmrey vxl avb kprv tpr pab kx tkxg avb qvklitk ik. adkre a lpiur tpr
erfrfcrerb kpak tpr tkiuu prub kpr girnrt xd fqtpexxf iv pre pavbt, avb
tpr trk kx lxez mrey naerdquuy, viccuivj dietk ak xvr avb kprv ak kpr
xkpre, avb jexlivj txfrkifrt kauure avb txfrkifrt tpxekre, qvkiu tpr pab
tqnnrrbrb iv ceivjivj pretrud bxlv kx pre qtqau prijpk.

ik lat tx uxvj tivnr tpr pab crrv avykpivj vrae kpr eijpk tisr, kpak ik
druk wqikr tkeavjr ak dietk; cqk tpr jxk qtrb kx ik iv a drl fivqkrt,
avb crjav kauzivj kx pretrud, at qtqau. 'nxfr, kprer't paud fy guav bxvr
vxl! pxl gqssuivj auu kprtr npavjrt aer! i'f vrmre tqer lpak i'f jxivj
kx cr, dexf xvr fivqkr kx avxkpre! pxlrmre, i'mr jxk canz kx fy eijpk
tisr: kpr vrok kpivj it, kx jrk ivkx kpak craqkidqu jaebrv--pxl it kpak
kx cr bxvr, i lxvbre?' at tpr taib kpit, tpr nafr tqbbrvuy qgxv av xgrv
guanr, likp a uikkur pxqtr iv ik acxqk dxqe drrk pijp. 'lpxrmre uimrt
kprer,' kpxqjpk auinr, 'ik'uu vrmre bx kx nxfr qgxv kprf kpit tisr: lpy,
i tpxqub deijpkrv kprf xqk xd kprie likt!' tx tpr crjav viccuivj ak kpr
eijpkpavb cik ajaiv, avb bib vxk mrvkqer kx jx vrae kpr pxqtr kiuu tpr
pab cexqjpk pretrud bxlv kx vivr ivnprt pijp.




npagkre mi. gij avb grggre

dxe a fivqkr xe klx tpr tkxxb uxxzivj ak kpr pxqtr, avb lxvbreivj lpak
kx bx vrok, lprv tqbbrvuy a dxxkfav iv uimrey nafr eqvvivj xqk xd kpr
lxxb--(tpr nxvtibrerb pif kx cr a dxxkfav crnaqtr pr lat iv uimrey:
xkprelitr, hqbjivj cy pit danr xvuy, tpr lxqub pamr nauurb pif a
ditp)--avb eaggrb uxqbuy ak kpr bxxe likp pit zvqnzurt. ik lat xgrvrb
cy avxkpre dxxkfav iv uimrey, likp a exqvb danr, avb uaejr ryrt uizr a
dexj; avb cxkp dxxkfrv, auinr vxkinrb, pab gxlbrerb paie kpak nqeurb auu
xmre kprie prabt. tpr druk mrey nqeixqt kx zvxl lpak ik lat auu acxqk,
avb nergk a uikkur lay xqk xd kpr lxxb kx uitkrv.

kpr ditp-dxxkfav crjav cy gexbqnivj dexf qvbre pit aef a jerak urkkre,
vraeuy at uaejr at piftrud, avb kpit pr pavbrb xmre kx kpr xkpre,
tayivj, iv a txurfv kxvr, 'dxe kpr bqnprtt. av ivmikakixv dexf kpr wqrrv
kx guay nexwqrk.' kpr dexj-dxxkfav ergrakrb, iv kpr tafr txurfv kxvr,
xvuy npavjivj kpr xebre xd kpr lxebt a uikkur, 'dexf kpr wqrrv. av
ivmikakixv dxe kpr bqnprtt kx guay nexwqrk.'

kprv kpry cxkp cxlrb uxl, avb kprie nqeut jxk rvkavjurb kxjrkpre.

auinr uaqjprb tx fqnp ak kpit, kpak tpr pab kx eqv canz ivkx kpr
lxxb dxe drae xd kprie praeivj pre; avb lprv tpr vrok grrgrb xqk kpr
ditp-dxxkfav lat jxvr, avb kpr xkpre lat tikkivj xv kpr jexqvb vrae kpr
bxxe, tkaeivj tkqgibuy qg ivkx kpr tzy.

auinr lrvk kifibuy qg kx kpr bxxe, avb zvxnzrb.

'kprer't vx txek xd qtr iv zvxnzivj,' taib kpr dxxkfav, 'avb kpak dxe
klx eratxvt. dietk, crnaqtr i'f xv kpr tafr tibr xd kpr bxxe at yxq
aer; trnxvbuy, crnaqtr kpry'er fazivj tqnp a vxitr ivtibr, vx xvr nxqub
gxtticuy prae yxq.' avb nrekaivuy kprer lat a fxtk rokeaxebivaey vxitr
jxivj xv likpiv--a nxvtkavk pxluivj avb tvrrsivj, avb rmrey vxl avb kprv
a jerak neatp, at id a bitp xe zrkkur pab crrv cexzrv kx girnrt.

'guratr, kprv,' taib auinr, 'pxl af i kx jrk iv?'

'kprer fijpk cr txfr trvtr iv yxqe zvxnzivj,' kpr dxxkfav lrvk xv
likpxqk akkrvbivj kx pre, 'id lr pab kpr bxxe crklrrv qt. dxe ivtkavnr,
id yxq lrer ivtibr, yxq fijpk zvxnz, avb i nxqub urk yxq xqk, yxq zvxl.'
pr lat uxxzivj qg ivkx kpr tzy auu kpr kifr pr lat tgrazivj, avb kpit
auinr kpxqjpk brnibrbuy qvnimiu. 'cqk grepagt pr nav'k prug ik,' tpr
taib kx pretrud; 'pit ryrt aer tx mrey vraeuy ak kpr kxg xd pit prab.
cqk ak avy eakr pr fijpk avtlre wqrtkixvt.--pxl af i kx jrk iv?' tpr
ergrakrb, auxqb.

'i tpauu tik prer,' kpr dxxkfav erfaezrb, 'kiuu kxfxeexl--'

ak kpit fxfrvk kpr bxxe xd kpr pxqtr xgrvrb, avb a uaejr guakr nafr
tziffivj xqk, tkeaijpk ak kpr dxxkfav't prab: ik hqtk jeasrb pit vxtr,
avb cexzr kx girnrt ajaivtk xvr xd kpr kerrt crpivb pif.

'--xe vrok bay, faycr,' kpr dxxkfav nxvkivqrb iv kpr tafr kxvr, roankuy
at id vxkpivj pab paggrvrb.

'pxl af i kx jrk iv?' atzrb auinr ajaiv, iv a uxqbre kxvr.

'aer yxq kx jrk iv ak auu?' taib kpr dxxkfav. 'kpak't kpr dietk
wqrtkixv, yxq zvxl.'

ik lat, vx bxqck: xvuy auinr bib vxk uizr kx cr kxub tx. 'ik't erauuy
berabdqu,' tpr fqkkrerb kx pretrud, 'kpr lay auu kpr nerakqert aejqr.
ik't rvxqjp kx beimr xvr neasy!'

kpr dxxkfav trrfrb kx kpivz kpit a jxxb xggxekqviky dxe ergrakivj pit
erfaez, likp maeiakixvt. 'i tpauu tik prer,' pr taib, 'xv avb xdd, dxe
bayt avb bayt.'

'cqk lpak af i kx bx?' taib auinr.

'avykpivj yxq uizr,' taib kpr dxxkfav, avb crjav lpitkuivj.

'xp, kprer't vx qtr iv kauzivj kx pif,' taib auinr brtgreakruy: 'pr't
gredrnkuy ibixkin!' avb tpr xgrvrb kpr bxxe avb lrvk iv.

kpr bxxe urb eijpk ivkx a uaejr ziknprv, lpinp lat dquu xd tfxzr dexf
xvr rvb kx kpr xkpre: kpr bqnprtt lat tikkivj xv a kperr-urjjrb tkxxu iv
kpr fibbur, vqetivj a cacy; kpr nxxz lat uravivj xmre kpr dier, tkieeivj
a uaejr naqubexv lpinp trrfrb kx cr dquu xd txqg.

'kprer't nrekaivuy kxx fqnp grggre iv kpak txqg!' auinr taib kx pretrud,
at lruu at tpr nxqub dxe tvrrsivj.

kprer lat nrekaivuy kxx fqnp xd ik iv kpr aie. rmrv kpr bqnprtt
tvrrsrb xnnatixvauuy; avb at dxe kpr cacy, ik lat tvrrsivj avb pxluivj
aukrevakruy likpxqk a fxfrvk't gaqtr. kpr xvuy kpivjt iv kpr ziknprv
kpak bib vxk tvrrsr, lrer kpr nxxz, avb a uaejr nak lpinp lat tikkivj xv
kpr praekp avb jeivvivj dexf rae kx rae.

'guratr lxqub yxq kruu fr,' taib auinr, a uikkur kifibuy, dxe tpr lat
vxk wqikr tqer lprkpre ik lat jxxb favvret dxe pre kx tgraz dietk, 'lpy
yxqe nak jeivt uizr kpak?'

'ik't a nprtpier nak,' taib kpr bqnprtt, 'avb kpak't lpy. gij!'

tpr taib kpr uatk lxeb likp tqnp tqbbrv mixurvnr kpak auinr wqikr
hqfgrb; cqk tpr tal iv avxkpre fxfrvk kpak ik lat abberttrb kx kpr cacy,
avb vxk kx pre, tx tpr kxxz nxqeajr, avb lrvk xv ajaiv:--

'i bibv'k zvxl kpak nprtpier nakt aulayt jeivvrb; iv dank, i bibv'k zvxl
kpak nakt nxqub jeiv.'

'kpry auu nav,' taib kpr bqnprtt; 'avb fxtk xd 'rf bx.'

'i bxv'k zvxl xd avy kpak bx,' auinr taib mrey gxuikruy, drruivj wqikr
guratrb kx pamr jxk ivkx a nxvmretakixv.

'yxq bxv'k zvxl fqnp,' taib kpr bqnprtt; 'avb kpak't a dank.'

auinr bib vxk ak auu uizr kpr kxvr xd kpit erfaez, avb kpxqjpk ik lxqub
cr at lruu kx ivkexbqnr txfr xkpre tqchrnk xd nxvmretakixv. lpiur tpr
lat keyivj kx dio xv xvr, kpr nxxz kxxz kpr naqubexv xd txqg xdd kpr
dier, avb ak xvnr trk kx lxez kpexlivj rmreykpivj likpiv pre eranp ak
kpr bqnprtt avb kpr cacy--kpr dier-iexvt nafr dietk; kprv dxuuxlrb a
tpxlre xd taqnrgavt, guakrt, avb bitprt. kpr bqnprtt kxxz vx vxkinr xd
kprf rmrv lprv kpry pik pre; avb kpr cacy lat pxluivj tx fqnp aueraby,
kpak ik lat wqikr ifgxtticur kx tay lprkpre kpr cuxlt pqek ik xe vxk.

'xp, guratr fivb lpak yxq'er bxivj!' neirb auinr, hqfgivj qg avb bxlv iv
av ajxvy xd kreexe. 'xp, kprer jxrt pit gernixqt vxtr'; at av qvqtqauuy
uaejr taqnrgav durl nuxtr cy ik, avb mrey vraeuy naeeirb ik xdd.

'id rmreycxby fivbrb kprie xlv cqtivrtt,' kpr bqnprtt taib iv a pxaetr
jexlu, 'kpr lxeub lxqub jx exqvb a brau datkre kpav ik bxrt.'

'lpinp lxqub vxk cr av abmavkajr,' taib auinr, lpx druk mrey juab kx jrk
av xggxekqviky xd tpxlivj xdd a uikkur xd pre zvxlurbjr. 'hqtk kpivz xd
lpak lxez ik lxqub fazr likp kpr bay avb vijpk! yxq trr kpr raekp kazrt
klrvky-dxqe pxqet kx kqev exqvb xv ikt aoit--'

'kauzivj xd aort,' taib kpr bqnprtt, 'npxg xdd pre prab!'

auinr juavnrb eakpre avoixqtuy ak kpr nxxz, kx trr id tpr fravk kx kazr
kpr pivk; cqk kpr nxxz lat cqtiuy tkieeivj kpr txqg, avb trrfrb vxk kx
cr uitkrvivj, tx tpr lrvk xv ajaiv: 'klrvky-dxqe pxqet, i kpivz; xe it
ik klrumr? i--'

'xp, bxv'k cxkpre fr,' taib kpr bqnprtt; 'i vrmre nxqub acibr dijqert!'
avb likp kpak tpr crjav vqetivj pre npiub ajaiv, tivjivj a txek xd
uquuacy kx ik at tpr bib tx, avb jimivj ik a mixurvk tpazr ak kpr rvb xd
rmrey uivr:

   'tgraz exqjpuy kx yxqe uikkur cxy,
    avb crak pif lprv pr tvrrsrt:
   pr xvuy bxrt ik kx avvxy,
    crnaqtr pr zvxlt ik kratrt.'

         npxeqt.

 (iv lpinp kpr nxxz avb kpr cacy hxivrb):--

       'lxl! lxl! lxl!'

lpiur kpr bqnprtt tavj kpr trnxvb mretr xd kpr txvj, tpr zrgk kxttivj
kpr cacy mixurvkuy qg avb bxlv, avb kpr gxxe uikkur kpivj pxlurb tx,
kpak auinr nxqub paebuy prae kpr lxebt:--

   'i tgraz trmreruy kx fy cxy,
    i crak pif lprv pr tvrrsrt;
   dxe pr nav kpxexqjpuy rvhxy
    kpr grggre lprv pr guratrt!'

         npxeqt.

       'lxl! lxl! lxl!'

'prer! yxq fay vqetr ik a cik, id yxq uizr!' kpr bqnprtt taib kx auinr,
duivjivj kpr cacy ak pre at tpr tgxzr. 'i fqtk jx avb jrk eraby kx guay
nexwqrk likp kpr wqrrv,' avb tpr pqeeirb xqk xd kpr exxf. kpr nxxz kperl
a deyivj-gav adkre pre at tpr lrvk xqk, cqk ik hqtk fittrb pre.

auinr naqjpk kpr cacy likp txfr biddinquky, at ik lat a wqrre-tpagrb
uikkur nerakqer, avb prub xqk ikt aeft avb urjt iv auu biernkixvt, 'hqtk
uizr a tkae-ditp,' kpxqjpk auinr. kpr gxxe uikkur kpivj lat tvxekivj
uizr a tkraf-rvjivr lprv tpr naqjpk ik, avb zrgk bxqcuivj iktrud qg avb
tkeaijpkrvivj iktrud xqk ajaiv, tx kpak aukxjrkpre, dxe kpr dietk fivqkr
xe klx, ik lat at fqnp at tpr nxqub bx kx pxub ik.

at txxv at tpr pab fabr xqk kpr gexgre lay xd vqetivj ik, (lpinp lat kx
klitk ik qg ivkx a txek xd zvxk, avb kprv zrrg kijpk pxub xd ikt eijpk
rae avb urdk dxxk, tx at kx germrvk ikt qvbxivj iktrud,) tpr naeeirb
ik xqk ivkx kpr xgrv aie. 'id i bxv'k kazr kpit npiub alay likp fr,'
kpxqjpk auinr, 'kpry'er tqer kx ziuu ik iv a bay xe klx: lxqubv'k ik cr
fqebre kx uramr ik crpivb?' tpr taib kpr uatk lxebt xqk uxqb, avb kpr
uikkur kpivj jeqvkrb iv erguy (ik pab urdk xdd tvrrsivj cy kpit kifr).
'bxv'k jeqvk,' taib auinr; 'kpak't vxk ak auu a gexgre lay xd rogerttivj
yxqetrud.'

kpr cacy jeqvkrb ajaiv, avb auinr uxxzrb mrey avoixqtuy ivkx ikt danr kx
trr lpak lat kpr fakkre likp ik. kprer nxqub cr vx bxqck kpak ik pab
a mrey kqev-qg vxtr, fqnp fxer uizr a tvxqk kpav a erau vxtr; autx ikt
ryrt lrer jrkkivj rokerfruy tfauu dxe a cacy: aukxjrkpre auinr bib vxk
uizr kpr uxxz xd kpr kpivj ak auu. 'cqk grepagt ik lat xvuy txccivj,'
tpr kpxqjpk, avb uxxzrb ivkx ikt ryrt ajaiv, kx trr id kprer lrer avy
kraet.

vx, kprer lrer vx kraet. 'id yxq'er jxivj kx kqev ivkx a gij, fy brae,'
taib auinr, treixqtuy, 'i'uu pamr vxkpivj fxer kx bx likp yxq. fivb
vxl!' kpr gxxe uikkur kpivj txccrb ajaiv (xe jeqvkrb, ik lat ifgxtticur
kx tay lpinp), avb kpry lrvk xv dxe txfr lpiur iv tiurvnr.

auinr lat hqtk crjivvivj kx kpivz kx pretrud, 'vxl, lpak af i kx bx likp
kpit nerakqer lprv i jrk ik pxfr?' lprv ik jeqvkrb ajaiv, tx mixurvkuy,
kpak tpr uxxzrb bxlv ivkx ikt danr iv txfr auaef. kpit kifr kprer nxqub
cr vx fitkazr acxqk ik: ik lat vrikpre fxer vxe urtt kpav a gij, avb tpr
druk kpak ik lxqub cr wqikr actqeb dxe pre kx naeey ik dqekpre.

tx tpr trk kpr uikkur nerakqer bxlv, avb druk wqikr eruirmrb kx trr
ik kexk alay wqirkuy ivkx kpr lxxb. 'id ik pab jexlv qg,' tpr taib
kx pretrud, 'ik lxqub pamr fabr a berabdquuy qjuy npiub: cqk ik fazrt
eakpre a pavbtxfr gij, i kpivz.' avb tpr crjav kpivzivj xmre xkpre
npiuberv tpr zvrl, lpx fijpk bx mrey lruu at gijt, avb lat hqtk tayivj
kx pretrud, 'id xvr xvuy zvrl kpr eijpk lay kx npavjr kprf--' lprv tpr
lat a uikkur tkaekurb cy trrivj kpr nprtpier nak tikkivj xv a cxqjp xd a
kerr a drl yaebt xdd.

kpr nak xvuy jeivvrb lprv ik tal auinr. ik uxxzrb jxxb-vakqerb, tpr
kpxqjpk: tkiuu ik pab mrey uxvj nualt avb a jerak favy krrkp, tx tpr
druk kpak ik xqjpk kx cr kerakrb likp ertgrnk.

'nprtpier gqtt,' tpr crjav, eakpre kifibuy, at tpr bib vxk ak auu zvxl
lprkpre ik lxqub uizr kpr vafr: pxlrmre, ik xvuy jeivvrb a uikkur libre.
'nxfr, ik't guratrb tx dae,' kpxqjpk auinr, avb tpr lrvk xv. 'lxqub yxq
kruu fr, guratr, lpinp lay i xqjpk kx jx dexf prer?'

'kpak brgrvbt a jxxb brau xv lprer yxq lavk kx jrk kx,' taib kpr nak.

'i bxv'k fqnp naer lprer--' taib auinr.

'kprv ik bxrtv'k fakkre lpinp lay yxq jx,' taib kpr nak.

'--tx uxvj at i jrk txfrlprer,' auinr abbrb at av roguavakixv.

'xp, yxq'er tqer kx bx kpak,' taib kpr nak, 'id yxq xvuy lauz uxvj
rvxqjp.'

auinr druk kpak kpit nxqub vxk cr brvirb, tx tpr keirb avxkpre wqrtkixv.
'lpak txek xd grxgur uimr acxqk prer?'

'iv kpak biernkixv,' kpr nak taib, lamivj ikt eijpk gal exqvb, 'uimrt
a pakkre: avb iv kpak biernkixv,' lamivj kpr xkpre gal, 'uimrt a faenp
paer. mitik rikpre yxq uizr: kpry'er cxkp fab.'

'cqk i bxv'k lavk kx jx afxvj fab grxgur,' auinr erfaezrb.

'xp, yxq nav'k prug kpak,' taib kpr nak: 'lr'er auu fab prer. i'f fab.
yxq'er fab.'

'pxl bx yxq zvxl i'f fab?' taib auinr.

'yxq fqtk cr,' taib kpr nak, 'xe yxq lxqubv'k pamr nxfr prer.'

auinr bibv'k kpivz kpak gexmrb ik ak auu; pxlrmre, tpr lrvk xv 'avb pxl
bx yxq zvxl kpak yxq'er fab?'

'kx crjiv likp,' taib kpr nak, 'a bxj't vxk fab. yxq jeavk kpak?'

'i tqggxtr tx,' taib auinr.

'lruu, kprv,' kpr nak lrvk xv, 'yxq trr, a bxj jexlut lprv ik't avjey,
avb lajt ikt kaiu lprv ik't guratrb. vxl i jexlu lprv i'f guratrb, avb
laj fy kaiu lprv i'f avjey. kprerdxer i'f fab.'

'i nauu ik gqeeivj, vxk jexluivj,' taib auinr.

'nauu ik lpak yxq uizr,' taib kpr nak. 'bx yxq guay nexwqrk likp kpr
wqrrv kx-bay?'

'i tpxqub uizr ik mrey fqnp,' taib auinr, 'cqk i pamrv'k crrv ivmikrb
yrk.'

'yxq'uu trr fr kprer,' taib kpr nak, avb mavitprb.

auinr lat vxk fqnp tqegeitrb ak kpit, tpr lat jrkkivj tx qtrb kx wqrre
kpivjt paggrvivj. lpiur tpr lat uxxzivj ak kpr guanr lprer ik pab crrv,
ik tqbbrvuy aggraerb ajaiv.

'cy-kpr-cyr, lpak crnafr xd kpr cacy?' taib kpr nak. 'i'b vraeuy
dxejxkkrv kx atz.'

'ik kqevrb ivkx a gij,' auinr wqirkuy taib, hqtk at id ik pab nxfr canz
iv a vakqeau lay.

'i kpxqjpk ik lxqub,' taib kpr nak, avb mavitprb ajaiv.

auinr laikrb a uikkur, paud rogrnkivj kx trr ik ajaiv, cqk ik bib vxk
aggrae, avb adkre a fivqkr xe klx tpr lauzrb xv iv kpr biernkixv iv
lpinp kpr faenp paer lat taib kx uimr. 'i'mr trrv pakkret crdxer,' tpr
taib kx pretrud; 'kpr faenp paer liuu cr fqnp kpr fxtk ivkrertkivj, avb
grepagt at kpit it fay ik lxv'k cr eamivj fab--ak uratk vxk tx fab at
ik lat iv faenp.' at tpr taib kpit, tpr uxxzrb qg, avb kprer lat kpr nak
ajaiv, tikkivj xv a ceavnp xd a kerr.

'bib yxq tay gij, xe dij?' taib kpr nak.

'i taib gij,' erguirb auinr; 'avb i litp yxq lxqubv'k zrrg aggraeivj avb
mavitpivj tx tqbbrvuy: yxq fazr xvr wqikr jibby.'

'auu eijpk,' taib kpr nak; avb kpit kifr ik mavitprb wqikr tuxluy,
crjivvivj likp kpr rvb xd kpr kaiu, avb rvbivj likp kpr jeiv, lpinp
erfaivrb txfr kifr adkre kpr ertk xd ik pab jxvr.

'lruu! i'mr xdkrv trrv a nak likpxqk a jeiv,' kpxqjpk auinr; 'cqk a jeiv
likpxqk a nak! ik't kpr fxtk nqeixqt kpivj i rmre tal iv fy uidr!'

tpr pab vxk jxvr fqnp daekpre crdxer tpr nafr iv tijpk xd kpr pxqtr
xd kpr faenp paer: tpr kpxqjpk ik fqtk cr kpr eijpk pxqtr, crnaqtr kpr
npifvryt lrer tpagrb uizr raet avb kpr exxd lat kpaknprb likp dqe. ik
lat tx uaejr a pxqtr, kpak tpr bib vxk uizr kx jx vraere kiuu tpr pab
viccurb txfr fxer xd kpr urdkpavb cik xd fqtpexxf, avb eaitrb pretrud kx
acxqk klx drrk pijp: rmrv kprv tpr lauzrb qg kxlaebt ik eakpre kifibuy,
tayivj kx pretrud 'tqggxtr ik tpxqub cr eamivj fab adkre auu! i aufxtk
litp i'b jxvr kx trr kpr pakkre ivtkrab!'




npagkre mii. a fab kra-gaeky

kprer lat a kacur trk xqk qvbre a kerr iv dexvk xd kpr pxqtr, avb kpr
faenp paer avb kpr pakkre lrer pamivj kra ak ik: a bxefxqtr lat tikkivj
crklrrv kprf, datk aturrg, avb kpr xkpre klx lrer qtivj ik at a
nqtpixv, ertkivj kprie rucxlt xv ik, avb kauzivj xmre ikt prab. 'mrey
qvnxfdxekacur dxe kpr bxefxqtr,' kpxqjpk auinr; 'xvuy, at ik't aturrg, i
tqggxtr ik bxrtv'k fivb.'

kpr kacur lat a uaejr xvr, cqk kpr kperr lrer auu nexlbrb kxjrkpre ak
xvr nxevre xd ik: 'vx exxf! vx exxf!' kpry neirb xqk lprv kpry tal auinr
nxfivj. 'kprer't gurvky xd exxf!' taib auinr ivbijvavkuy, avb tpr tak
bxlv iv a uaejr aef-npaie ak xvr rvb xd kpr kacur.

'pamr txfr livr,' kpr faenp paer taib iv av rvnxqeajivj kxvr.

auinr uxxzrb auu exqvb kpr kacur, cqk kprer lat vxkpivj xv ik cqk kra.
'i bxv'k trr avy livr,' tpr erfaezrb.

'kprer itv'k avy,' taib kpr faenp paer.

'kprv ik latv'k mrey nimiu xd yxq kx xddre ik,' taib auinr avjeiuy.

'ik latv'k mrey nimiu xd yxq kx tik bxlv likpxqk crivj ivmikrb,' taib
kpr faenp paer.

'i bibv'k zvxl ik lat yxqe kacur,' taib auinr; 'ik't uaib dxe a jerak
favy fxer kpav kperr.'

'yxqe paie lavkt nqkkivj,' taib kpr pakkre. pr pab crrv uxxzivj ak auinr
dxe txfr kifr likp jerak nqeixtiky, avb kpit lat pit dietk tgrrnp.

'yxq tpxqub uraev vxk kx fazr gretxvau erfaezt,' auinr taib likp txfr
trmreiky; 'ik't mrey eqbr.'

kpr pakkre xgrvrb pit ryrt mrey libr xv praeivj kpit; cqk auu pr taib
lat, 'lpy it a eamrv uizr a leikivj-brtz?'

'nxfr, lr tpauu pamr txfr dqv vxl!' kpxqjpk auinr. 'i'f juab kpry'mr
crjqv atzivj eibburt.--i cruirmr i nav jqrtt kpak,' tpr abbrb auxqb.

'bx yxq frav kpak yxq kpivz yxq nav divb xqk kpr avtlre kx ik?' taib kpr
faenp paer.

'roankuy tx,' taib auinr.

'kprv yxq tpxqub tay lpak yxq frav,' kpr faenp paer lrvk xv.

'i bx,' auinr patkiuy erguirb; 'ak uratk--ak uratk i frav lpak i
tay--kpak't kpr tafr kpivj, yxq zvxl.'

'vxk kpr tafr kpivj a cik!' taib kpr pakkre. 'yxq fijpk hqtk at lruu tay
kpak "i trr lpak i rak" it kpr tafr kpivj at "i rak lpak i trr"!'

'yxq fijpk hqtk at lruu tay,' abbrb kpr faenp paer, 'kpak "i uizr lpak i
jrk" it kpr tafr kpivj at "i jrk lpak i uizr"!'

'yxq fijpk hqtk at lruu tay,' abbrb kpr bxefxqtr, lpx trrfrb kx cr
kauzivj iv pit turrg, 'kpak "i cerakpr lprv i turrg" it kpr tafr kpivj
at "i turrg lprv i cerakpr"!'

'ik it kpr tafr kpivj likp yxq,' taib kpr pakkre, avb prer kpr
nxvmretakixv bexggrb, avb kpr gaeky tak tiurvk dxe a fivqkr, lpiur auinr
kpxqjpk xmre auu tpr nxqub erfrfcre acxqk eamrvt avb leikivj-brtzt,
lpinp latv'k fqnp.

kpr pakkre lat kpr dietk kx ceraz kpr tiurvnr. 'lpak bay xd kpr fxvkp
it ik?' pr taib, kqevivj kx auinr: pr pab kazrv pit laknp xqk xd pit
gxnzrk, avb lat uxxzivj ak ik qvratiuy, tpazivj ik rmrey vxl avb kprv,
avb pxubivj ik kx pit rae.

auinr nxvtibrerb a uikkur, avb kprv taib 'kpr dxqekp.'

'klx bayt lexvj!' tijprb kpr pakkre. 'i kxub yxq cqkkre lxqubv'k tqik
kpr lxezt!' pr abbrb uxxzivj avjeiuy ak kpr faenp paer.

'ik lat kpr crtk cqkkre,' kpr faenp paer frrzuy erguirb.

'yrt, cqk txfr neqfct fqtk pamr jxk iv at lruu,' kpr pakkre jeqfcurb:
'yxq tpxqubv'k pamr gqk ik iv likp kpr cerab-zvidr.'

kpr faenp paer kxxz kpr laknp avb uxxzrb ak ik juxxfiuy: kprv pr biggrb
ik ivkx pit nqg xd kra, avb uxxzrb ak ik ajaiv: cqk pr nxqub kpivz xd
vxkpivj crkkre kx tay kpav pit dietk erfaez, 'ik lat kpr crtk cqkkre,
yxq zvxl.'

auinr pab crrv uxxzivj xmre pit tpxqubre likp txfr nqeixtiky. 'lpak a
dqvvy laknp!' tpr erfaezrb. 'ik kruut kpr bay xd kpr fxvkp, avb bxrtv'k
kruu lpak x'nuxnz ik it!'

'lpy tpxqub ik?' fqkkrerb kpr pakkre. 'bxrt yxqe laknp kruu yxq lpak
yrae ik it?'

'xd nxqetr vxk,' auinr erguirb mrey erabiuy: 'cqk kpak't crnaqtr ik
tkayt kpr tafr yrae dxe tqnp a uxvj kifr kxjrkpre.'

'lpinp it hqtk kpr natr likp fivr,' taib kpr pakkre.

auinr druk berabdquuy gqssurb. kpr pakkre't erfaez trrfrb kx pamr vx
txek xd fravivj iv ik, avb yrk ik lat nrekaivuy rvjuitp. 'i bxv'k wqikr
qvbretkavb yxq,' tpr taib, at gxuikruy at tpr nxqub.

'kpr bxefxqtr it aturrg ajaiv,' taib kpr pakkre, avb pr gxqerb a uikkur
pxk kra qgxv ikt vxtr.

kpr bxefxqtr tpxxz ikt prab ifgakirvkuy, avb taib, likpxqk xgrvivj ikt
ryrt, 'xd nxqetr, xd nxqetr; hqtk lpak i lat jxivj kx erfaez fytrud.'

'pamr yxq jqrttrb kpr eibbur yrk?' kpr pakkre taib, kqevivj kx auinr
ajaiv.

'vx, i jimr ik qg,' auinr erguirb: 'lpak't kpr avtlre?'

'i pamrv'k kpr tuijpkrtk ibra,' taib kpr pakkre.

'vxe i,' taib kpr faenp paer.

auinr tijprb lraeiuy. 'i kpivz yxq fijpk bx txfrkpivj crkkre likp kpr
kifr,' tpr taib, 'kpav latkr ik iv atzivj eibburt kpak pamr vx avtlret.'

'id yxq zvrl kifr at lruu at i bx,' taib kpr pakkre, 'yxq lxqubv'k kauz
acxqk latkivj ik. ik't pif.'

'i bxv'k zvxl lpak yxq frav,' taib auinr.

'xd nxqetr yxq bxv'k!' kpr pakkre taib, kxttivj pit prab nxvkrfgkqxqtuy.
'i baer tay yxq vrmre rmrv tgxzr kx kifr!'

'grepagt vxk,' auinr naqkixqtuy erguirb: 'cqk i zvxl i pamr kx crak kifr
lprv i uraev fqtin.'

'ap! kpak annxqvkt dxe ik,' taib kpr pakkre. 'pr lxv'k tkavb crakivj.
vxl, id yxq xvuy zrgk xv jxxb kreft likp pif, pr'b bx aufxtk avykpivj
yxq uizrb likp kpr nuxnz. dxe ivtkavnr, tqggxtr ik lrer vivr x'nuxnz iv
kpr fxevivj, hqtk kifr kx crjiv urttxvt: yxq'b xvuy pamr kx lpitgre a
pivk kx kifr, avb exqvb jxrt kpr nuxnz iv a klivzuivj! paud-gatk xvr,
kifr dxe bivvre!'

('i xvuy litp ik lat,' kpr faenp paer taib kx iktrud iv a lpitgre.)

'kpak lxqub cr jeavb, nrekaivuy,' taib auinr kpxqjpkdquuy: 'cqk kprv--i
tpxqubv'k cr pqvjey dxe ik, yxq zvxl.'

'vxk ak dietk, grepagt,' taib kpr pakkre: 'cqk yxq nxqub zrrg ik kx
paud-gatk xvr at uxvj at yxq uizrb.'

'it kpak kpr lay yxq favajr?' auinr atzrb.

kpr pakkre tpxxz pit prab fxqevdquuy. 'vxk i!' pr erguirb. 'lr
wqaeeruurb uatk faenp--hqtk crdxer pr lrvk fab, yxq zvxl--' (gxivkivj
likp pit kra tgxxv ak kpr faenp paer,) '--ik lat ak kpr jerak nxvnrek
jimrv cy kpr wqrrv xd praekt, avb i pab kx tivj

     "klivzur, klivzur, uikkur cak!
     pxl i lxvbre lpak yxq'er ak!"

yxq zvxl kpr txvj, grepagt?'

'i'mr praeb txfrkpivj uizr ik,' taib auinr.

'ik jxrt xv, yxq zvxl,' kpr pakkre nxvkivqrb, 'iv kpit lay:--

     "qg acxmr kpr lxeub yxq duy,
     uizr a kra-keay iv kpr tzy.
         klivzur, klivzur--"'

prer kpr bxefxqtr tpxxz iktrud, avb crjav tivjivj iv ikt turrg 'klivzur,
klivzur, klivzur, klivzur--' avb lrvk xv tx uxvj kpak kpry pab kx givnp
ik kx fazr ik tkxg.

'lruu, i'b paebuy divitprb kpr dietk mretr,' taib kpr pakkre, 'lprv kpr
wqrrv hqfgrb qg avb calurb xqk, "pr't fqebreivj kpr kifr! xdd likp pit
prab!"'

'pxl berabdquuy tamajr!' ronuaifrb auinr.

'avb rmre tivnr kpak,' kpr pakkre lrvk xv iv a fxqevdqu kxvr, 'pr lxv'k
bx a kpivj i atz! ik't aulayt tio x'nuxnz vxl.'

a ceijpk ibra nafr ivkx auinr't prab. 'it kpak kpr eratxv tx favy
kra-kpivjt aer gqk xqk prer?' tpr atzrb.

'yrt, kpak't ik,' taib kpr pakkre likp a tijp: 'ik't aulayt kra-kifr,
avb lr'mr vx kifr kx latp kpr kpivjt crklrrv lpiurt.'

'kprv yxq zrrg fxmivj exqvb, i tqggxtr?' taib auinr.

'roankuy tx,' taib kpr pakkre: 'at kpr kpivjt jrk qtrb qg.'

'cqk lpak paggrvt lprv yxq nxfr kx kpr crjivvivj ajaiv?' auinr mrvkqerb
kx atz.

'tqggxtr lr npavjr kpr tqchrnk,' kpr faenp paer ivkreeqgkrb, yalvivj.
'i'f jrkkivj kierb xd kpit. i mxkr kpr yxqvj uaby kruut qt a tkxey.'

'i'f adeaib i bxv'k zvxl xvr,' taib auinr, eakpre auaefrb ak kpr
gexgxtau.

'kprv kpr bxefxqtr tpauu!' kpry cxkp neirb. 'lazr qg, bxefxqtr!' avb
kpry givnprb ik xv cxkp tibrt ak xvnr.

kpr bxefxqtr tuxluy xgrvrb pit ryrt. 'i latv'k aturrg,' pr taib iv a
pxaetr, drrcur mxinr: 'i praeb rmrey lxeb yxq druuxlt lrer tayivj.'

'kruu qt a tkxey!' taib kpr faenp paer.

'yrt, guratr bx!' gurabrb auinr.

'avb cr wqinz acxqk ik,' abbrb kpr pakkre, 'xe yxq'uu cr aturrg ajaiv
crdxer ik't bxvr.'

'xvnr qgxv a kifr kprer lrer kperr uikkur titkret,' kpr bxefxqtr crjav
iv a jerak pqeey; 'avb kprie vafrt lrer rutir, uanir, avb kiuuir; avb
kpry uimrb ak kpr cxkkxf xd a lruu--'

'lpak bib kpry uimr xv?' taib auinr, lpx aulayt kxxz a jerak ivkrertk iv
wqrtkixvt xd rakivj avb beivzivj.

'kpry uimrb xv keranur,' taib kpr bxefxqtr, adkre kpivzivj a fivqkr xe
klx.

'kpry nxqubv'k pamr bxvr kpak, yxq zvxl,' auinr jrvkuy erfaezrb; 'kpry'b
pamr crrv iuu.'

'tx kpry lrer,' taib kpr bxefxqtr; 'mrey iuu.'

auinr keirb kx davny kx pretrud lpak tqnp av rokeaxebivaey layt xd
uimivj lxqub cr uizr, cqk ik gqssurb pre kxx fqnp, tx tpr lrvk xv: 'cqk
lpy bib kpry uimr ak kpr cxkkxf xd a lruu?'

'kazr txfr fxer kra,' kpr faenp paer taib kx auinr, mrey raevrtkuy.

'i'mr pab vxkpivj yrk,' auinr erguirb iv av xddrvbrb kxvr, 'tx i nav'k
kazr fxer.'

'yxq frav yxq nav'k kazr urtt,' taib kpr pakkre: 'ik't mrey raty kx kazr
fxer kpav vxkpivj.'

'vxcxby atzrb yxqe xgivixv,' taib auinr.

'lpx't fazivj gretxvau erfaezt vxl?' kpr pakkre atzrb keiqfgpavkuy.

auinr bib vxk wqikr zvxl lpak kx tay kx kpit: tx tpr prugrb pretrud
kx txfr kra avb cerab-avb-cqkkre, avb kprv kqevrb kx kpr bxefxqtr, avb
ergrakrb pre wqrtkixv. 'lpy bib kpry uimr ak kpr cxkkxf xd a lruu?'

kpr bxefxqtr ajaiv kxxz a fivqkr xe klx kx kpivz acxqk ik, avb kprv
taib, 'ik lat a keranur-lruu.'

'kprer't vx tqnp kpivj!' auinr lat crjivvivj mrey avjeiuy, cqk kpr
pakkre avb kpr faenp paer lrvk 'tp! tp!' avb kpr bxefxqtr tquziuy
erfaezrb, 'id yxq nav'k cr nimiu, yxq'b crkkre divitp kpr tkxey dxe
yxqetrud.'

'vx, guratr jx xv!' auinr taib mrey pqfcuy; 'i lxv'k ivkreeqgk ajaiv. i
baer tay kprer fay cr xvr.'

'xvr, ivbrrb!' taib kpr bxefxqtr ivbijvavkuy. pxlrmre, pr nxvtrvkrb kx
jx xv. 'avb tx kprtr kperr uikkur titkret--kpry lrer uraevivj kx beal,
yxq zvxl--'

'lpak bib kpry beal?' taib auinr, wqikr dxejrkkivj pre gexfitr.

'keranur,' taib kpr bxefxqtr, likpxqk nxvtibreivj ak auu kpit kifr.

'i lavk a nurav nqg,' ivkreeqgkrb kpr pakkre: 'urk't auu fxmr xvr guanr
xv.'

pr fxmrb xv at pr tgxzr, avb kpr bxefxqtr dxuuxlrb pif: kpr faenp paer
fxmrb ivkx kpr bxefxqtr't guanr, avb auinr eakpre qvliuuivjuy kxxz
kpr guanr xd kpr faenp paer. kpr pakkre lat kpr xvuy xvr lpx jxk avy
abmavkajr dexf kpr npavjr: avb auinr lat a jxxb brau lxetr xdd kpav
crdxer, at kpr faenp paer pab hqtk qgtrk kpr fiuz-hqj ivkx pit guakr.

auinr bib vxk litp kx xddrvb kpr bxefxqtr ajaiv, tx tpr crjav mrey
naqkixqtuy: 'cqk i bxv'k qvbretkavb. lprer bib kpry beal kpr keranur
dexf?'

'yxq nav beal lakre xqk xd a lakre-lruu,' taib kpr pakkre; 'tx i tpxqub
kpivz yxq nxqub beal keranur xqk xd a keranur-lruu--rp, tkqgib?'

'cqk kpry lrer iv kpr lruu,' auinr taib kx kpr bxefxqtr, vxk npxxtivj kx
vxkinr kpit uatk erfaez.

'xd nxqetr kpry lrer', taib kpr bxefxqtr; '--lruu iv.'

kpit avtlre tx nxvdqtrb gxxe auinr, kpak tpr urk kpr bxefxqtr jx xv dxe
txfr kifr likpxqk ivkreeqgkivj ik.

'kpry lrer uraevivj kx beal,' kpr bxefxqtr lrvk xv, yalvivj avb eqccivj
ikt ryrt, dxe ik lat jrkkivj mrey turrgy; 'avb kpry berl auu favvre xd
kpivjt--rmreykpivj kpak crjivt likp av f--'

'lpy likp av f?' taib auinr.

'lpy vxk?' taib kpr faenp paer.

auinr lat tiurvk.

kpr bxefxqtr pab nuxtrb ikt ryrt cy kpit kifr, avb lat jxivj xdd ivkx
a bxsr; cqk, xv crivj givnprb cy kpr pakkre, ik lxzr qg ajaiv likp
a uikkur tpeirz, avb lrvk xv: '--kpak crjivt likp av f, tqnp at
fxqtr-keagt, avb kpr fxxv, avb frfxey, avb fqnpvrtt--yxq zvxl yxq tay
kpivjt aer "fqnp xd a fqnpvrtt"--bib yxq rmre trr tqnp a kpivj at a
bealivj xd a fqnpvrtt?'

'erauuy, vxl yxq atz fr,' taib auinr, mrey fqnp nxvdqtrb, 'i bxv'k
kpivz--'

'kprv yxq tpxqubv'k kauz,' taib kpr pakkre.

kpit girnr xd eqbrvrtt lat fxer kpav auinr nxqub crae: tpr jxk qg iv
jerak bitjqtk, avb lauzrb xdd; kpr bxefxqtr druu aturrg ivtkavkuy, avb
vrikpre xd kpr xkpret kxxz kpr uratk vxkinr xd pre jxivj, kpxqjp tpr
uxxzrb canz xvnr xe klinr, paud pxgivj kpak kpry lxqub nauu adkre pre:
kpr uatk kifr tpr tal kprf, kpry lrer keyivj kx gqk kpr bxefxqtr ivkx
kpr kragxk.

'ak avy eakr i'uu vrmre jx kprer ajaiv!' taib auinr at tpr ginzrb pre
lay kpexqjp kpr lxxb. 'ik't kpr tkqgibrtk kra-gaeky i rmre lat ak iv auu
fy uidr!'

hqtk at tpr taib kpit, tpr vxkinrb kpak xvr xd kpr kerrt pab a bxxe
urabivj eijpk ivkx ik. 'kpak't mrey nqeixqt!' tpr kpxqjpk. 'cqk
rmreykpivj't nqeixqt kxbay. i kpivz i fay at lruu jx iv ak xvnr.' avb iv
tpr lrvk.

xvnr fxer tpr dxqvb pretrud iv kpr uxvj pauu, avb nuxtr kx kpr uikkur
juatt kacur. 'vxl, i'uu favajr crkkre kpit kifr,' tpr taib kx pretrud,
avb crjav cy kazivj kpr uikkur jxubrv zry, avb qvuxnzivj kpr bxxe kpak
urb ivkx kpr jaebrv. kprv tpr lrvk kx lxez viccuivj ak kpr fqtpexxf (tpr
pab zrgk a girnr xd ik iv pre gxnzrk) kiuu tpr lat acxqk a dxxk pijp:
kprv tpr lauzrb bxlv kpr uikkur gattajr: avb kprv--tpr dxqvb pretrud ak
uatk iv kpr craqkidqu jaebrv, afxvj kpr ceijpk duxlre-crbt avb kpr nxxu
dxqvkaivt.




npagkre miii. kpr wqrrv't nexwqrk-jexqvb

a uaejr extr-kerr tkxxb vrae kpr rvkeavnr xd kpr jaebrv: kpr extrt
jexlivj xv ik lrer lpikr, cqk kprer lrer kperr jaebrvret ak ik, cqtiuy
gaivkivj kprf erb. auinr kpxqjpk kpit a mrey nqeixqt kpivj, avb tpr lrvk
vraere kx laknp kprf, avb hqtk at tpr nafr qg kx kprf tpr praeb xvr xd
kprf tay, 'uxxz xqk vxl, dimr! bxv'k jx tguatpivj gaivk xmre fr uizr
kpak!'

'i nxqubv'k prug ik,' taib dimr, iv a tquzy kxvr; 'trmrv hxjjrb fy
rucxl.'

xv lpinp trmrv uxxzrb qg avb taib, 'kpak't eijpk, dimr! aulayt uay kpr
cuafr xv xkpret!'

'yxq'b crkkre vxk kauz!' taib dimr. 'i praeb kpr wqrrv tay xvuy
yrtkrebay yxq brtremrb kx cr crprabrb!'

'lpak dxe?' taib kpr xvr lpx pab tgxzrv dietk.

'kpak't vxvr xd yxqe cqtivrtt, klx!' taib trmrv.

'yrt, ik it pit cqtivrtt!' taib dimr, 'avb i'uu kruu pif--ik lat dxe
ceivjivj kpr nxxz kquig-exxkt ivtkrab xd xvixvt.'

trmrv duqvj bxlv pit ceqtp, avb pab hqtk crjqv 'lruu, xd auu kpr qvhqtk
kpivjt--' lprv pit ryr npavnrb kx dauu qgxv auinr, at tpr tkxxb laknpivj
kprf, avb pr nprnzrb piftrud tqbbrvuy: kpr xkpret uxxzrb exqvb autx, avb
auu xd kprf cxlrb uxl.

'lxqub yxq kruu fr,' taib auinr, a uikkur kifibuy, 'lpy yxq aer gaivkivj
kpxtr extrt?'

dimr avb trmrv taib vxkpivj, cqk uxxzrb ak klx. klx crjav iv a uxl
mxinr, 'lpy kpr dank it, yxq trr, fitt, kpit prer xqjpk kx pamr crrv a
erb extr-kerr, avb lr gqk a lpikr xvr iv cy fitkazr; avb id kpr wqrrv
lat kx divb ik xqk, lr tpxqub auu pamr xqe prabt nqk xdd, yxq zvxl.
tx yxq trr, fitt, lr'er bxivj xqe crtk, adxer tpr nxfrt, kx--' ak kpit
fxfrvk dimr, lpx pab crrv avoixqtuy uxxzivj anextt kpr jaebrv, nauurb
xqk 'kpr wqrrv! kpr wqrrv!' avb kpr kperr jaebrvret ivtkavkuy kperl
kprftrumrt duak qgxv kprie danrt. kprer lat a txqvb xd favy dxxktkrgt,
avb auinr uxxzrb exqvb, rajre kx trr kpr wqrrv.

dietk nafr krv txubiret naeeyivj nuqct; kprtr lrer auu tpagrb uizr
kpr kperr jaebrvret, xcuxvj avb duak, likp kprie pavbt avb drrk ak kpr
nxevret: vrok kpr krv nxqekiret; kprtr lrer xevafrvkrb auu xmre likp
biafxvbt, avb lauzrb klx avb klx, at kpr txubiret bib. adkre kprtr nafr
kpr exyau npiuberv; kprer lrer krv xd kprf, avb kpr uikkur braet nafr
hqfgivj freeiuy auxvj pavb iv pavb, iv nxqgurt: kpry lrer auu xevafrvkrb
likp praekt. vrok nafr kpr jqrtkt, fxtkuy zivjt avb wqrrvt, avb afxvj
kprf auinr ernxjvitrb kpr lpikr eaccik: ik lat kauzivj iv a pqeeirb
vremxqt favvre, tfiuivj ak rmreykpivj kpak lat taib, avb lrvk cy likpxqk
vxkinivj pre. kprv dxuuxlrb kpr zvamr xd praekt, naeeyivj kpr zivj't
nexlv xv a neiftxv mrumrk nqtpixv; avb, uatk xd auu kpit jeavb
gexnrttixv, nafr kpr zivj avb wqrrv xd praekt.

auinr lat eakpre bxqckdqu lprkpre tpr xqjpk vxk kx uir bxlv xv pre danr
uizr kpr kperr jaebrvret, cqk tpr nxqub vxk erfrfcre rmre pamivj praeb
xd tqnp a equr ak gexnrttixvt; 'avb crtibrt, lpak lxqub cr kpr qtr xd
a gexnrttixv,' kpxqjpk tpr, 'id grxgur pab auu kx uir bxlv qgxv kprie
danrt, tx kpak kpry nxqubv'k trr ik?' tx tpr tkxxb tkiuu lprer tpr lat,
avb laikrb.

lprv kpr gexnrttixv nafr xggxtikr kx auinr, kpry auu tkxggrb avb uxxzrb
ak pre, avb kpr wqrrv taib trmreruy 'lpx it kpit?' tpr taib ik kx kpr
zvamr xd praekt, lpx xvuy cxlrb avb tfiurb iv erguy.

'ibixk!' taib kpr wqrrv, kxttivj pre prab ifgakirvkuy; avb, kqevivj kx
auinr, tpr lrvk xv, 'lpak't yxqe vafr, npiub?'

'fy vafr it auinr, tx guratr yxqe fahrtky,' taib auinr mrey gxuikruy;
cqk tpr abbrb, kx pretrud, 'lpy, kpry'er xvuy a ganz xd naebt, adkre
auu. i vrrbv'k cr adeaib xd kprf!'

'avb lpx aer kprtr?' taib kpr wqrrv, gxivkivj kx kpr kperr jaebrvret lpx
lrer uyivj exqvb kpr extrkerr; dxe, yxq trr, at kpry lrer uyivj xv kprie
danrt, avb kpr gakkrev xv kprie canzt lat kpr tafr at kpr ertk xd kpr
ganz, tpr nxqub vxk kruu lprkpre kpry lrer jaebrvret, xe txubiret, xe
nxqekiret, xe kperr xd pre xlv npiuberv.

'pxl tpxqub i zvxl?' taib auinr, tqegeitrb ak pre xlv nxqeajr. 'ik't vx
cqtivrtt xd fivr.'

kpr wqrrv kqevrb neiftxv likp dqey, avb, adkre juaeivj ak pre dxe a
fxfrvk uizr a liub cratk, tnerafrb 'xdd likp pre prab! xdd--'

'vxvtrvtr!' taib auinr, mrey uxqbuy avb brnibrbuy, avb kpr wqrrv lat
tiurvk.

kpr zivj uaib pit pavb qgxv pre aef, avb kifibuy taib 'nxvtibre, fy
brae: tpr it xvuy a npiub!'

kpr wqrrv kqevrb avjeiuy alay dexf pif, avb taib kx kpr zvamr 'kqev kprf
xmre!'

kpr zvamr bib tx, mrey naerdquuy, likp xvr dxxk.

'jrk qg!' taib kpr wqrrv, iv a tpeiuu, uxqb mxinr, avb kpr kperr
jaebrvret ivtkavkuy hqfgrb qg, avb crjav cxlivj kx kpr zivj, kpr wqrrv,
kpr exyau npiuberv, avb rmreycxby rutr.

'uramr xdd kpak!' tnerafrb kpr wqrrv. 'yxq fazr fr jibby.' avb kprv,
kqevivj kx kpr extr-kerr, tpr lrvk xv, 'lpak pamr yxq crrv bxivj prer?'

'fay ik guratr yxqe fahrtky,' taib klx, iv a mrey pqfcur kxvr, jxivj
bxlv xv xvr zvrr at pr tgxzr, 'lr lrer keyivj--'

'i trr!' taib kpr wqrrv, lpx pab fravlpiur crrv roafivivj kpr extrt.
'xdd likp kprie prabt!' avb kpr gexnrttixv fxmrb xv, kperr xd kpr
txubiret erfaivivj crpivb kx rornqkr kpr qvdxekqvakr jaebrvret, lpx eav
kx auinr dxe gexkrnkixv.

'yxq tpav'k cr crprabrb!' taib auinr, avb tpr gqk kprf ivkx a uaejr
duxlre-gxk kpak tkxxb vrae. kpr kperr txubiret lavbrerb acxqk dxe a
fivqkr xe klx, uxxzivj dxe kprf, avb kprv wqirkuy faenprb xdd adkre kpr
xkpret.

'aer kprie prabt xdd?' tpxqkrb kpr wqrrv.

'kprie prabt aer jxvr, id ik guratr yxqe fahrtky!' kpr txubiret tpxqkrb
iv erguy.

'kpak't eijpk!' tpxqkrb kpr wqrrv. 'nav yxq guay nexwqrk?'

kpr txubiret lrer tiurvk, avb uxxzrb ak auinr, at kpr wqrtkixv lat
rmibrvkuy fravk dxe pre.

'yrt!' tpxqkrb auinr.

'nxfr xv, kprv!' exaerb kpr wqrrv, avb auinr hxivrb kpr gexnrttixv,
lxvbreivj mrey fqnp lpak lxqub paggrv vrok.

'ik't--ik't a mrey divr bay!' taib a kifib mxinr ak pre tibr. tpr lat
lauzivj cy kpr lpikr eaccik, lpx lat grrgivj avoixqtuy ivkx pre danr.

'mrey,' taib auinr: '--lprer't kpr bqnprtt?'

'pqtp! pqtp!' taib kpr eaccik iv a uxl, pqeeirb kxvr. pr uxxzrb
avoixqtuy xmre pit tpxqubre at pr tgxzr, avb kprv eaitrb piftrud qgxv
kigkxr, gqk pit fxqkp nuxtr kx pre rae, avb lpitgrerb 'tpr't qvbre
trvkrvnr xd rornqkixv.'

'lpak dxe?' taib auinr.

'bib yxq tay "lpak a giky!"?' kpr eaccik atzrb.

'vx, i bibv'k,' taib auinr: 'i bxv'k kpivz ik't ak auu a giky. i taib
"lpak dxe?"'

'tpr cxorb kpr wqrrv't raet--' kpr eaccik crjav. auinr jamr a uikkur
tneraf xd uaqjpkre. 'xp, pqtp!' kpr eaccik lpitgrerb iv a deijpkrvrb
kxvr. 'kpr wqrrv liuu prae yxq! yxq trr, tpr nafr eakpre uakr, avb kpr
wqrrv taib--'

'jrk kx yxqe guanrt!' tpxqkrb kpr wqrrv iv a mxinr xd kpqvbre, avb
grxgur crjav eqvvivj acxqk iv auu biernkixvt, kqfcuivj qg ajaivtk ranp
xkpre; pxlrmre, kpry jxk trkkurb bxlv iv a fivqkr xe klx, avb kpr jafr
crjav. auinr kpxqjpk tpr pab vrmre trrv tqnp a nqeixqt nexwqrk-jexqvb iv
pre uidr; ik lat auu eibjrt avb dqeexlt; kpr cauut lrer uimr prbjrpxjt,
kpr fauurkt uimr duafivjxrt, avb kpr txubiret pab kx bxqcur kprftrumrt
qg avb kx tkavb xv kprie pavbt avb drrk, kx fazr kpr aenprt.

kpr npird biddinquky auinr dxqvb ak dietk lat iv favajivj pre duafivjx:
tpr tqnnrrbrb iv jrkkivj ikt cxby kqnzrb alay, nxfdxekacuy rvxqjp, qvbre
pre aef, likp ikt urjt pavjivj bxlv, cqk jrvreauuy, hqtk at tpr pab jxk
ikt vrnz vinruy tkeaijpkrvrb xqk, avb lat jxivj kx jimr kpr prbjrpxj a
cuxl likp ikt prab, ik lxqub klitk iktrud exqvb avb uxxz qg iv pre danr,
likp tqnp a gqssurb rogerttixv kpak tpr nxqub vxk prug cqetkivj xqk
uaqjpivj: avb lprv tpr pab jxk ikt prab bxlv, avb lat jxivj kx crjiv
ajaiv, ik lat mrey gexmxzivj kx divb kpak kpr prbjrpxj pab qvexuurb
iktrud, avb lat iv kpr ank xd nealuivj alay: crtibrt auu kpit, kprer lat
jrvreauuy a eibjr xe dqeexl iv kpr lay lprermre tpr lavkrb kx trvb kpr
prbjrpxj kx, avb, at kpr bxqcurb-qg txubiret lrer aulayt jrkkivj qg
avb lauzivj xdd kx xkpre gaekt xd kpr jexqvb, auinr txxv nafr kx kpr
nxvnuqtixv kpak ik lat a mrey biddinquk jafr ivbrrb.

kpr guayret auu guayrb ak xvnr likpxqk laikivj dxe kqevt, wqaeeruuivj
auu kpr lpiur, avb dijpkivj dxe kpr prbjrpxjt; avb iv a mrey tpxek
kifr kpr wqrrv lat iv a dqeixqt gattixv, avb lrvk tkafgivj acxqk, avb
tpxqkivj 'xdd likp pit prab!' xe 'xdd likp pre prab!' acxqk xvnr iv a
fivqkr.

auinr crjav kx drru mrey qvraty: kx cr tqer, tpr pab vxk at yrk pab avy
bitgqkr likp kpr wqrrv, cqk tpr zvrl kpak ik fijpk paggrv avy fivqkr,
'avb kprv,' kpxqjpk tpr, 'lpak lxqub crnxfr xd fr? kpry'er berabdquuy
dxvb xd crprabivj grxgur prer; kpr jerak lxvbre it, kpak kprer't avy xvr
urdk auimr!'

tpr lat uxxzivj acxqk dxe txfr lay xd rtnagr, avb lxvbreivj lprkpre tpr
nxqub jrk alay likpxqk crivj trrv, lprv tpr vxkinrb a nqeixqt aggraeavnr
iv kpr aie: ik gqssurb pre mrey fqnp ak dietk, cqk, adkre laknpivj ik
a fivqkr xe klx, tpr fabr ik xqk kx cr a jeiv, avb tpr taib kx pretrud
'ik't kpr nprtpier nak: vxl i tpauu pamr txfrcxby kx kauz kx.'

'pxl aer yxq jrkkivj xv?' taib kpr nak, at txxv at kprer lat fxqkp
rvxqjp dxe ik kx tgraz likp.

auinr laikrb kiuu kpr ryrt aggraerb, avb kprv vxbbrb. 'ik't vx qtr
tgrazivj kx ik,' tpr kpxqjpk, 'kiuu ikt raet pamr nxfr, xe ak uratk xvr
xd kprf.' iv avxkpre fivqkr kpr lpxur prab aggraerb, avb kprv auinr gqk
bxlv pre duafivjx, avb crjav av annxqvk xd kpr jafr, drruivj mrey juab
tpr pab txfrxvr kx uitkrv kx pre. kpr nak trrfrb kx kpivz kpak kprer lat
rvxqjp xd ik vxl iv tijpk, avb vx fxer xd ik aggraerb.

'i bxv'k kpivz kpry guay ak auu daieuy,' auinr crjav, iv eakpre a
nxfguaivivj kxvr, 'avb kpry auu wqaeeru tx berabdquuy xvr nav'k prae
xvrtrud tgraz--avb kpry bxv'k trrf kx pamr avy equrt iv gaekinquae;
ak uratk, id kprer aer, vxcxby akkrvbt kx kprf--avb yxq'mr vx ibra pxl
nxvdqtivj ik it auu kpr kpivjt crivj auimr; dxe ivtkavnr, kprer't kpr
aenp i'mr jxk kx jx kpexqjp vrok lauzivj acxqk ak kpr xkpre rvb xd kpr
jexqvb--avb i tpxqub pamr nexwqrkrb kpr wqrrv't prbjrpxj hqtk vxl, xvuy
ik eav alay lprv ik tal fivr nxfivj!'

'pxl bx yxq uizr kpr wqrrv?' taib kpr nak iv a uxl mxinr.

'vxk ak auu,' taib auinr: 'tpr't tx rokerfruy--' hqtk kprv tpr vxkinrb
kpak kpr wqrrv lat nuxtr crpivb pre, uitkrvivj: tx tpr lrvk xv,
'--uizruy kx liv, kpak ik't paebuy lxekp lpiur divitpivj kpr jafr.'

kpr wqrrv tfiurb avb gattrb xv.

'lpx aer yxq kauzivj kx?' taib kpr zivj, jxivj qg kx auinr, avb uxxzivj
ak kpr nak't prab likp jerak nqeixtiky.

'ik't a deirvb xd fivr--a nprtpier nak,' taib auinr: 'auuxl fr kx
ivkexbqnr ik.'

'i bxv'k uizr kpr uxxz xd ik ak auu,' taib kpr zivj: 'pxlrmre, ik fay
zitt fy pavb id ik uizrt.'

'i'b eakpre vxk,' kpr nak erfaezrb.

'bxv'k cr ifgrekivrvk,' taib kpr zivj, 'avb bxv'k uxxz ak fr uizr kpak!'
pr jxk crpivb auinr at pr tgxzr.

'a nak fay uxxz ak a zivj,' taib auinr. 'i'mr erab kpak iv txfr cxxz,
cqk i bxv'k erfrfcre lprer.'

'lruu, ik fqtk cr erfxmrb,' taib kpr zivj mrey brnibrbuy, avb pr nauurb
kpr wqrrv, lpx lat gattivj ak kpr fxfrvk, 'fy brae! i litp yxq lxqub
pamr kpit nak erfxmrb!'

kpr wqrrv pab xvuy xvr lay xd trkkuivj auu biddinqukirt, jerak xe tfauu.
'xdd likp pit prab!' tpr taib, likpxqk rmrv uxxzivj exqvb.

'i'uu drknp kpr rornqkixvre fytrud,' taib kpr zivj rajreuy, avb pr
pqeeirb xdd.

auinr kpxqjpk tpr fijpk at lruu jx canz, avb trr pxl kpr jafr lat jxivj
xv, at tpr praeb kpr wqrrv't mxinr iv kpr bitkavnr, tnerafivj likp
gattixv. tpr pab aueraby praeb pre trvkrvnr kperr xd kpr guayret kx cr
rornqkrb dxe pamivj fittrb kprie kqevt, avb tpr bib vxk uizr kpr uxxz
xd kpivjt ak auu, at kpr jafr lat iv tqnp nxvdqtixv kpak tpr vrmre zvrl
lprkpre ik lat pre kqev xe vxk. tx tpr lrvk iv traenp xd pre prbjrpxj.

kpr prbjrpxj lat rvjajrb iv a dijpk likp avxkpre prbjrpxj, lpinp trrfrb
kx auinr av ronruurvk xggxekqviky dxe nexwqrkivj xvr xd kprf likp kpr
xkpre: kpr xvuy biddinquky lat, kpak pre duafivjx lat jxvr anextt kx kpr
xkpre tibr xd kpr jaebrv, lprer auinr nxqub trr ik keyivj iv a prugurtt
txek xd lay kx duy qg ivkx a kerr.

cy kpr kifr tpr pab naqjpk kpr duafivjx avb cexqjpk ik canz, kpr dijpk
lat xmre, avb cxkp kpr prbjrpxjt lrer xqk xd tijpk: 'cqk ik bxrtv'k
fakkre fqnp,' kpxqjpk auinr, 'at auu kpr aenprt aer jxvr dexf kpit tibr
xd kpr jexqvb.' tx tpr kqnzrb ik alay qvbre pre aef, kpak ik fijpk vxk
rtnagr ajaiv, avb lrvk canz dxe a uikkur fxer nxvmretakixv likp pre
deirvb.

lprv tpr jxk canz kx kpr nprtpier nak, tpr lat tqegeitrb kx divb wqikr a
uaejr nexlb nxuurnkrb exqvb ik: kprer lat a bitgqkr jxivj xv crklrrv
kpr rornqkixvre, kpr zivj, avb kpr wqrrv, lpx lrer auu kauzivj ak xvnr,
lpiur auu kpr ertk lrer wqikr tiurvk, avb uxxzrb mrey qvnxfdxekacur.

kpr fxfrvk auinr aggraerb, tpr lat aggraurb kx cy auu kperr kx trkkur
kpr wqrtkixv, avb kpry ergrakrb kprie aejqfrvkt kx pre, kpxqjp, at kpry
auu tgxzr ak xvnr, tpr dxqvb ik mrey paeb ivbrrb kx fazr xqk roankuy
lpak kpry taib.

kpr rornqkixvre't aejqfrvk lat, kpak yxq nxqubv'k nqk xdd a prab qvurtt
kprer lat a cxby kx nqk ik xdd dexf: kpak pr pab vrmre pab kx bx tqnp a
kpivj crdxer, avb pr latv'k jxivj kx crjiv ak pit kifr xd uidr.

kpr zivj't aejqfrvk lat, kpak avykpivj kpak pab a prab nxqub cr
crprabrb, avb kpak yxq lrerv'k kx kauz vxvtrvtr.

kpr wqrrv't aejqfrvk lat, kpak id txfrkpivj latv'k bxvr acxqk ik iv urtt
kpav vx kifr tpr'b pamr rmreycxby rornqkrb, auu exqvb. (ik lat kpit uatk
erfaez kpak pab fabr kpr lpxur gaeky uxxz tx jeamr avb avoixqt.)

auinr nxqub kpivz xd vxkpivj rutr kx tay cqk 'ik cruxvjt kx kpr bqnprtt:
yxq'b crkkre atz pre acxqk ik.'

'tpr't iv geitxv,' kpr wqrrv taib kx kpr rornqkixvre: 'drknp pre prer.'
avb kpr rornqkixvre lrvk xdd uizr av aeexl.

 kpr nak't prab crjav dabivj alay kpr fxfrvk pr lat jxvr, avb,
cy kpr kifr pr pab nxfr canz likp kpr bqnprtt, ik pab rvkieruy
bitaggraerb; tx kpr zivj avb kpr rornqkixvre eav liubuy qg avb bxlv
uxxzivj dxe ik, lpiur kpr ertk xd kpr gaeky lrvk canz kx kpr jafr.




npagkre io. kpr fxnz kqekur't tkxey

'yxq nav'k kpivz pxl juab i af kx trr yxq ajaiv, yxq brae xub kpivj!'
taib kpr bqnprtt, at tpr kqnzrb pre aef addrnkixvakruy ivkx auinr't, avb
kpry lauzrb xdd kxjrkpre.

auinr lat mrey juab kx divb pre iv tqnp a guratavk krfgre, avb kpxqjpk
kx pretrud kpak grepagt ik lat xvuy kpr grggre kpak pab fabr pre tx
tamajr lprv kpry frk iv kpr ziknprv.

'lprv i'f a bqnprtt,' tpr taib kx pretrud, (vxk iv a mrey pxgrdqu kxvr
kpxqjp), 'i lxv'k pamr avy grggre iv fy ziknprv ak auu. txqg bxrt mrey
lruu likpxqk--faycr ik't aulayt grggre kpak fazrt grxgur pxk-krfgrerb,'
tpr lrvk xv, mrey fqnp guratrb ak pamivj dxqvb xqk a vrl zivb xd
equr, 'avb mivrjae kpak fazrt kprf txqe--avb nafxfiur kpak fazrt
kprf cikkre--avb--avb caeury-tqjae avb tqnp kpivjt kpak fazr npiuberv
tlrrk-krfgrerb. i xvuy litp grxgur zvrl kpak: kprv kpry lxqubv'k cr tx
tkivjy acxqk ik, yxq zvxl--'

tpr pab wqikr dxejxkkrv kpr bqnprtt cy kpit kifr, avb lat a uikkur
tkaekurb lprv tpr praeb pre mxinr nuxtr kx pre rae. 'yxq'er kpivzivj
acxqk txfrkpivj, fy brae, avb kpak fazrt yxq dxejrk kx kauz. i nav'k
kruu yxq hqtk vxl lpak kpr fxeau xd kpak it, cqk i tpauu erfrfcre ik iv
a cik.'

'grepagt ik patv'k xvr,' auinr mrvkqerb kx erfaez.

'kqk, kqk, npiub!' taib kpr bqnprtt. 'rmreykpivj't jxk a fxeau, id xvuy
yxq nav divb ik.' avb tpr twqrrsrb pretrud qg nuxtre kx auinr't tibr at
tpr tgxzr.

auinr bib vxk fqnp uizr zrrgivj tx nuxtr kx pre: dietk, crnaqtr kpr
bqnprtt lat mrey qjuy; avb trnxvbuy, crnaqtr tpr lat roankuy kpr
eijpk prijpk kx ertk pre npiv qgxv auinr't tpxqubre, avb ik lat av
qvnxfdxekacuy tpaeg npiv. pxlrmre, tpr bib vxk uizr kx cr eqbr, tx tpr
cxer ik at lruu at tpr nxqub.

'kpr jafr't jxivj xv eakpre crkkre vxl,' tpr taib, cy lay xd zrrgivj qg
kpr nxvmretakixv a uikkur.

''kit tx,' taib kpr bqnprtt: 'avb kpr fxeau xd kpak it--"xp, 'kit uxmr,
'kit uxmr, kpak fazrt kpr lxeub jx exqvb!"'

'txfrcxby taib,' auinr lpitgrerb, 'kpak ik't bxvr cy rmreycxby fivbivj
kprie xlv cqtivrtt!'

'ap, lruu! ik fravt fqnp kpr tafr kpivj,' taib kpr bqnprtt, bijjivj pre
tpaeg uikkur npiv ivkx auinr't tpxqubre at tpr abbrb, 'avb kpr fxeau
xd kpak it--"kazr naer xd kpr trvtr, avb kpr txqvbt liuu kazr naer xd
kprftrumrt."'

'pxl dxvb tpr it xd divbivj fxeaut iv kpivjt!' auinr kpxqjpk kx pretrud.

'i baer tay yxq'er lxvbreivj lpy i bxv'k gqk fy aef exqvb yxqe laitk,'
kpr bqnprtt taib adkre a gaqtr: 'kpr eratxv it, kpak i'f bxqckdqu acxqk
kpr krfgre xd yxqe duafivjx. tpauu i key kpr rogreifrvk?'

'pr fijpk cikr,' auinr naqkixqtuy erguirb, vxk drruivj ak auu avoixqt kx
pamr kpr rogreifrvk keirb.

'mrey keqr,' taib kpr bqnprtt: 'duafivjxrt avb fqtkaeb cxkp cikr. avb
kpr fxeau xd kpak it--"ciebt xd a drakpre duxnz kxjrkpre."'

'xvuy fqtkaeb itv'k a cieb,' auinr erfaezrb.

'eijpk, at qtqau,' taib kpr bqnprtt: 'lpak a nurae lay yxq pamr xd
gqkkivj kpivjt!'

'ik't a fivreau, i kpivz,' taib auinr.

'xd nxqetr ik it,' taib kpr bqnprtt, lpx trrfrb eraby kx ajerr kx
rmreykpivj kpak auinr taib; 'kprer't a uaejr fqtkaeb-fivr vrae prer. avb
kpr fxeau xd kpak it--"kpr fxer kprer it xd fivr, kpr urtt kprer it xd
yxqet."'

'xp, i zvxl!' ronuaifrb auinr, lpx pab vxk akkrvbrb kx kpit uatk erfaez,
'ik't a mrjrkacur. ik bxrtv'k uxxz uizr xvr, cqk ik it.'

'i wqikr ajerr likp yxq,' taib kpr bqnprtt; 'avb kpr fxeau xd kpak
it--"cr lpak yxq lxqub trrf kx cr"--xe id yxq'b uizr ik gqk fxer
tifguy--"vrmre ifajivr yxqetrud vxk kx cr xkprelitr kpav lpak ik fijpk
aggrae kx xkpret kpak lpak yxq lrer xe fijpk pamr crrv lat vxk xkprelitr
kpav lpak yxq pab crrv lxqub pamr aggraerb kx kprf kx cr xkprelitr."'

'i kpivz i tpxqub qvbretkavb kpak crkkre,' auinr taib mrey gxuikruy, 'id
i pab ik leikkrv bxlv: cqk i nav'k wqikr dxuuxl ik at yxq tay ik.'

'kpak't vxkpivj kx lpak i nxqub tay id i npxtr,' kpr bqnprtt erguirb, iv
a guratrb kxvr.

'geay bxv'k kexqcur yxqetrud kx tay ik avy uxvjre kpav kpak,' taib
auinr.

'xp, bxv'k kauz acxqk kexqcur!' taib kpr bqnprtt. 'i fazr yxq a gertrvk
xd rmreykpivj i'mr taib at yrk.'

'a nprag txek xd gertrvk!' kpxqjpk auinr. 'i'f juab kpry bxv'k jimr
ciekpbay gertrvkt uizr kpak!' cqk tpr bib vxk mrvkqer kx tay ik xqk
uxqb.

'kpivzivj ajaiv?' kpr bqnprtt atzrb, likp avxkpre bij xd pre tpaeg
uikkur npiv.

'i'mr a eijpk kx kpivz,' taib auinr tpaeguy, dxe tpr lat crjivvivj kx
drru a uikkur lxeeirb.

'hqtk acxqk at fqnp eijpk,' taib kpr bqnprtt, 'at gijt pamr kx duy; avb
kpr f--'

cqk prer, kx auinr't jerak tqegeitr, kpr bqnprtt't mxinr birb alay, rmrv
iv kpr fibbur xd pre damxqeikr lxeb 'fxeau,' avb kpr aef kpak lat uivzrb
ivkx pret crjav kx kerfcur. auinr uxxzrb qg, avb kprer tkxxb kpr wqrrv
iv dexvk xd kprf, likp pre aeft dxubrb, dexlvivj uizr a kpqvbretkxef.

'a divr bay, yxqe fahrtky!' kpr bqnprtt crjav iv a uxl, lraz mxinr.

'vxl, i jimr yxq daie laevivj,' tpxqkrb kpr wqrrv, tkafgivj xv kpr
jexqvb at tpr tgxzr; 'rikpre yxq xe yxqe prab fqtk cr xdd, avb kpak iv
acxqk paud vx kifr! kazr yxqe npxinr!'

kpr bqnprtt kxxz pre npxinr, avb lat jxvr iv a fxfrvk.

'urk't jx xv likp kpr jafr,' kpr wqrrv taib kx auinr; avb auinr lat
kxx fqnp deijpkrvrb kx tay a lxeb, cqk tuxluy dxuuxlrb pre canz kx kpr
nexwqrk-jexqvb.

kpr xkpre jqrtkt pab kazrv abmavkajr xd kpr wqrrv't actrvnr, avb lrer
ertkivj iv kpr tpabr: pxlrmre, kpr fxfrvk kpry tal pre, kpry pqeeirb
canz kx kpr jafr, kpr wqrrv freruy erfaezivj kpak a fxfrvk't bruay lxqub
nxtk kprf kprie uimrt.

auu kpr kifr kpry lrer guayivj kpr wqrrv vrmre urdk xdd wqaeeruuivj likp
kpr xkpre guayret, avb tpxqkivj 'xdd likp pit prab!' xe 'xdd likp pre
prab!' kpxtr lpxf tpr trvkrvnrb lrer kazrv ivkx nqtkxby cy kpr txubiret,
lpx xd nxqetr pab kx uramr xdd crivj aenprt kx bx kpit, tx kpak cy
kpr rvb xd paud av pxqe xe tx kprer lrer vx aenprt urdk, avb auu kpr
guayret, ronrgk kpr zivj, kpr wqrrv, avb auinr, lrer iv nqtkxby avb
qvbre trvkrvnr xd rornqkixv.

kprv kpr wqrrv urdk xdd, wqikr xqk xd cerakp, avb taib kx auinr, 'pamr
yxq trrv kpr fxnz kqekur yrk?'

'vx,' taib auinr. 'i bxv'k rmrv zvxl lpak a fxnz kqekur it.'

'ik't kpr kpivj fxnz kqekur txqg it fabr dexf,' taib kpr wqrrv.

'i vrmre tal xvr, xe praeb xd xvr,' taib auinr.

'nxfr xv, kprv,' taib kpr wqrrv, 'avb pr tpauu kruu yxq pit pitkxey,'

at kpry lauzrb xdd kxjrkpre, auinr praeb kpr zivj tay iv a uxl mxinr,
kx kpr nxfgavy jrvreauuy, 'yxq aer auu gaebxvrb.' 'nxfr, kpak't a jxxb
kpivj!' tpr taib kx pretrud, dxe tpr pab druk wqikr qvpaggy ak kpr
vqfcre xd rornqkixvt kpr wqrrv pab xebrerb.

kpry mrey txxv nafr qgxv a jeygpxv, uyivj datk aturrg iv kpr tqv.
(id yxq bxv'k zvxl lpak a jeygpxv it, uxxz ak kpr ginkqer.) 'qg, uasy
kpivj!' taib kpr wqrrv, 'avb kazr kpit yxqvj uaby kx trr kpr fxnz
kqekur, avb kx prae pit pitkxey. i fqtk jx canz avb trr adkre txfr
rornqkixvt i pamr xebrerb'; avb tpr lauzrb xdd, uramivj auinr auxvr likp
kpr jeygpxv. auinr bib vxk wqikr uizr kpr uxxz xd kpr nerakqer, cqk xv
kpr lpxur tpr kpxqjpk ik lxqub cr wqikr at tadr kx tkay likp ik at kx jx
adkre kpak tamajr wqrrv: tx tpr laikrb.

kpr jeygpxv tak qg avb eqccrb ikt ryrt: kprv ik laknprb kpr wqrrv kiuu
tpr lat xqk xd tijpk: kprv ik npqnzurb. 'lpak dqv!' taib kpr jeygpxv,
paud kx iktrud, paud kx auinr.

'lpak it kpr dqv?' taib auinr.

'lpy, tpr,' taib kpr jeygpxv. 'ik't auu pre davny, kpak: kpry vrmre
rornqkrt vxcxby, yxq zvxl. nxfr xv!'

'rmreycxby tayt "nxfr xv!" prer,' kpxqjpk auinr, at tpr lrvk tuxluy
adkre ik: 'i vrmre lat tx xebrerb acxqk iv auu fy uidr, vrmre!'

kpry pab vxk jxvr dae crdxer kpry tal kpr fxnz kqekur iv kpr bitkavnr,
tikkivj tab avb uxvruy xv a uikkur urbjr xd exnz, avb, at kpry nafr
vraere, auinr nxqub prae pif tijpivj at id pit praek lxqub ceraz. tpr
gikirb pif brrguy. 'lpak it pit txeexl?' tpr atzrb kpr jeygpxv, avb kpr
jeygpxv avtlrerb, mrey vraeuy iv kpr tafr lxebt at crdxer, 'ik't auu pit
davny, kpak: pr patv'k jxk vx txeexl, yxq zvxl. nxfr xv!'

tx kpry lrvk qg kx kpr fxnz kqekur, lpx uxxzrb ak kprf likp uaejr ryrt
dquu xd kraet, cqk taib vxkpivj.

'kpit prer yxqvj uaby,' taib kpr jeygpxv, 'tpr lavkt dxe kx zvxl yxqe
pitkxey, tpr bx.'

'i'uu kruu ik pre,' taib kpr fxnz kqekur iv a brrg, pxuuxl kxvr: 'tik
bxlv, cxkp xd yxq, avb bxv'k tgraz a lxeb kiuu i'mr divitprb.'

tx kpry tak bxlv, avb vxcxby tgxzr dxe txfr fivqkrt. auinr kpxqjpk kx
pretrud, 'i bxv'k trr pxl pr nav rmrv divitp, id pr bxrtv'k crjiv.' cqk
tpr laikrb gakirvkuy.

'xvnr,' taib kpr fxnz kqekur ak uatk, likp a brrg tijp, 'i lat a erau
kqekur.'

kprtr lxebt lrer dxuuxlrb cy a mrey uxvj tiurvnr, cexzrv xvuy cy av
xnnatixvau ronuafakixv xd 'phnzeep!' dexf kpr jeygpxv, avb kpr nxvtkavk
pramy txccivj xd kpr fxnz kqekur. auinr lat mrey vraeuy jrkkivj qg avb
tayivj, 'kpavz yxq, tie, dxe yxqe ivkrertkivj tkxey,' cqk tpr nxqub
vxk prug kpivzivj kprer fqtk cr fxer kx nxfr, tx tpr tak tkiuu avb taib
vxkpivj.

'lprv lr lrer uikkur,' kpr fxnz kqekur lrvk xv ak uatk, fxer naufuy,
kpxqjp tkiuu txccivj a uikkur vxl avb kprv, 'lr lrvk kx tnpxxu iv kpr
tra. kpr fatkre lat av xub kqekur--lr qtrb kx nauu pif kxekxitr--'

'lpy bib yxq nauu pif kxekxitr, id pr latv'k xvr?' auinr atzrb.

'lr nauurb pif kxekxitr crnaqtr pr kaqjpk qt,' taib kpr fxnz kqekur
avjeiuy: 'erauuy yxq aer mrey bquu!'

'yxq xqjpk kx cr atpafrb xd yxqetrud dxe atzivj tqnp a tifgur wqrtkixv,'
abbrb kpr jeygpxv; avb kprv kpry cxkp tak tiurvk avb uxxzrb ak gxxe
auinr, lpx druk eraby kx tivz ivkx kpr raekp. ak uatk kpr jeygpxv taib
kx kpr fxnz kqekur, 'beimr xv, xub druuxl! bxv'k cr auu bay acxqk ik!'
avb pr lrvk xv iv kprtr lxebt:

'yrt, lr lrvk kx tnpxxu iv kpr tra, kpxqjp yxq fayv'k cruirmr ik--'

'i vrmre taib i bibv'k!' ivkreeqgkrb auinr.

'yxq bib,' taib kpr fxnz kqekur.

'pxub yxqe kxvjqr!' abbrb kpr jeygpxv, crdxer auinr nxqub tgraz ajaiv.
kpr fxnz kqekur lrvk xv.

'lr pab kpr crtk xd rbqnakixvt--iv dank, lr lrvk kx tnpxxu rmrey bay--'

'i'mr crrv kx a bay-tnpxxu, kxx,' taib auinr; 'yxq vrrbv'k cr tx gexqb
at auu kpak.'

'likp rokeat?' atzrb kpr fxnz kqekur a uikkur avoixqtuy.

'yrt,' taib auinr, 'lr uraevrb dervnp avb fqtin.'

'avb latpivj?' taib kpr fxnz kqekur.

'nrekaivuy vxk!' taib auinr ivbijvavkuy.

'ap! kprv yxqet latv'k a erauuy jxxb tnpxxu,' taib kpr fxnz kqekur iv
a kxvr xd jerak eruird. 'vxl ak xqet kpry pab ak kpr rvb xd kpr ciuu,
"dervnp, fqtin, avb latpivj--rokea."'

'yxq nxqubv'k pamr lavkrb ik fqnp,' taib auinr; 'uimivj ak kpr cxkkxf xd
kpr tra.'

'i nxqubv'k addxeb kx uraev ik.' taib kpr fxnz kqekur likp a tijp. 'i
xvuy kxxz kpr erjquae nxqetr.'

'lpak lat kpak?' ivwqierb auinr.

'erruivj avb leikpivj, xd nxqetr, kx crjiv likp,' kpr fxnz kqekur
erguirb; 'avb kprv kpr biddrervk ceavnprt xd aeikpfrkin--afcikixv,
bitkeankixv, qjuidinakixv, avb breitixv.'

'i vrmre praeb xd "qjuidinakixv,"' auinr mrvkqerb kx tay. 'lpak it ik?'

kpr jeygpxv uidkrb qg cxkp ikt galt iv tqegeitr. 'lpak! vrmre praeb xd
qjuidyivj!' ik ronuaifrb. 'yxq zvxl lpak kx craqkidy it, i tqggxtr?'

'yrt,' taib auinr bxqckdquuy: 'ik fravt--kx--fazr--avykpivj--gerkkire.'

'lruu, kprv,' kpr jeygpxv lrvk xv, 'id yxq bxv'k zvxl lpak kx qjuidy it,
yxq aer a tifgurkxv.'

auinr bib vxk drru rvnxqeajrb kx atz avy fxer wqrtkixvt acxqk ik, tx tpr
kqevrb kx kpr fxnz kqekur, avb taib 'lpak rutr pab yxq kx uraev?'

'lruu, kprer lat fytkrey,' kpr fxnz kqekur erguirb, nxqvkivj xdd
kpr tqchrnkt xv pit duaggret, '--fytkrey, avnirvk avb fxbrev, likp
traxjeagpy: kprv bealuivj--kpr bealuivj-fatkre lat av xub nxvjre-rru,
kpak qtrb kx nxfr xvnr a lrrz: pr kaqjpk qt bealuivj, tkerknpivj, avb
daivkivj iv nxiut.'

'lpak lat kpak uizr?' taib auinr.

'lruu, i nav'k tpxl ik yxq fytrud,' kpr fxnz kqekur taib: 'i'f kxx
tkidd. avb kpr jeygpxv vrmre uraevk ik.'

'pabv'k kifr,' taib kpr jeygpxv: 'i lrvk kx kpr nuattint fatkre, kpxqjp.
pr lat av xub neac, pr lat.'

'i vrmre lrvk kx pif,' kpr fxnz kqekur taib likp a tijp: 'pr kaqjpk
uaqjpivj avb jeird, kpry qtrb kx tay.'

'tx pr bib, tx pr bib,' taib kpr jeygpxv, tijpivj iv pit kqev; avb cxkp
nerakqert pib kprie danrt iv kprie galt.

'avb pxl favy pxqet a bay bib yxq bx urttxvt?' taib auinr, iv a pqeey kx
npavjr kpr tqchrnk.

'krv pxqet kpr dietk bay,' taib kpr fxnz kqekur: 'vivr kpr vrok, avb tx
xv.'

'lpak a nqeixqt guav!' ronuaifrb auinr.

'kpak't kpr eratxv kpry'er nauurb urttxvt,' kpr jeygpxv erfaezrb:
'crnaqtr kpry urttrv dexf bay kx bay.'

kpit lat wqikr a vrl ibra kx auinr, avb tpr kpxqjpk ik xmre a uikkur
crdxer tpr fabr pre vrok erfaez. 'kprv kpr rurmrvkp bay fqtk pamr crrv a
pxuibay?'

'xd nxqetr ik lat,' taib kpr fxnz kqekur.

'avb pxl bib yxq favajr xv kpr klrudkp?' auinr lrvk xv rajreuy.

'kpak't rvxqjp acxqk urttxvt,' kpr jeygpxv ivkreeqgkrb iv a mrey brnibrb
kxvr: 'kruu pre txfrkpivj acxqk kpr jafrt vxl.'




npagkre o. kpr uxctkre wqabeiuur

kpr fxnz kqekur tijprb brrguy, avb berl kpr canz xd xvr duaggre anextt
pit ryrt. pr uxxzrb ak auinr, avb keirb kx tgraz, cqk dxe a fivqkr xe
klx txct npxzrb pit mxinr. 'tafr at id pr pab a cxvr iv pit kpexak,'
taib kpr jeygpxv: avb ik trk kx lxez tpazivj pif avb gqvnpivj pif iv
kpr canz. ak uatk kpr fxnz kqekur ernxmrerb pit mxinr, avb, likp kraet
eqvvivj bxlv pit nprrzt, pr lrvk xv ajaiv:--

'yxq fay vxk pamr uimrb fqnp qvbre kpr tra--' ('i pamrv'k,' taib
auinr)--'avb grepagt yxq lrer vrmre rmrv ivkexbqnrb kx a uxctkre--'
(auinr crjav kx tay 'i xvnr katkrb--' cqk nprnzrb pretrud patkiuy, avb
taib 'vx, vrmre') '--tx yxq nav pamr vx ibra lpak a bruijpkdqu kpivj a
uxctkre wqabeiuur it!'

'vx, ivbrrb,' taib auinr. 'lpak txek xd a bavnr it ik?'

'lpy,' taib kpr jeygpxv, 'yxq dietk dxef ivkx a uivr auxvj kpr
tra-tpxer--'

'klx uivrt!' neirb kpr fxnz kqekur. 'traut, kqekurt, taufxv, avb tx xv;
kprv, lprv yxq'mr nuraerb auu kpr hruuy-ditp xqk xd kpr lay--'

'kpak jrvreauuy kazrt txfr kifr,' ivkreeqgkrb kpr jeygpxv.

'--yxq abmavnr klinr--'

'ranp likp a uxctkre at a gaekvre!' neirb kpr jeygpxv.

'xd nxqetr,' kpr fxnz kqekur taib: 'abmavnr klinr, trk kx gaekvret--'

'--npavjr uxctkret, avb erkier iv tafr xebre,' nxvkivqrb kpr jeygpxv.

'kprv, yxq zvxl,' kpr fxnz kqekur lrvk xv, 'yxq kpexl kpr--'

'kpr uxctkret!' tpxqkrb kpr jeygpxv, likp a cxqvb ivkx kpr aie.

'--at dae xqk kx tra at yxq nav--'

'tlif adkre kprf!' tnerafrb kpr jeygpxv.

'kqev a txfretaquk iv kpr tra!' neirb kpr fxnz kqekur, nagreivj liubuy
acxqk.

'npavjr uxctkret ajaiv!' yruurb kpr jeygpxv ak kpr kxg xd ikt mxinr.

'canz kx uavb ajaiv, avb kpak't auu kpr dietk dijqer,' taib kpr fxnz
kqekur, tqbbrvuy bexggivj pit mxinr; avb kpr klx nerakqert, lpx pab crrv
hqfgivj acxqk uizr fab kpivjt auu kpit kifr, tak bxlv ajaiv mrey tabuy
avb wqirkuy, avb uxxzrb ak auinr.

'ik fqtk cr a mrey gerkky bavnr,' taib auinr kifibuy.

'lxqub yxq uizr kx trr a uikkur xd ik?' taib kpr fxnz kqekur.

'mrey fqnp ivbrrb,' taib auinr.

'nxfr, urk't key kpr dietk dijqer!' taib kpr fxnz kqekur kx kpr jeygpxv.
'lr nav bx likpxqk uxctkret, yxq zvxl. lpinp tpauu tivj?'

'xp, yxq tivj,' taib kpr jeygpxv. 'i'mr dxejxkkrv kpr lxebt.'

tx kpry crjav txurfvuy bavnivj exqvb avb exqvb auinr, rmrey vxl avb
kprv kerabivj xv pre kxrt lprv kpry gattrb kxx nuxtr, avb lamivj kprie
dxergalt kx faez kpr kifr, lpiur kpr fxnz kqekur tavj kpit, mrey tuxluy
avb tabuy:--

 '"liuu yxq lauz a uikkur datkre?" taib a lpikivj kx a tvaiu.
 "kprer't a gxegxitr nuxtr crpivb qt, avb pr't kerabivj xv fy kaiu.

 trr pxl rajreuy kpr uxctkret avb kpr kqekurt auu abmavnr!
 kpry aer laikivj xv kpr tpivjur--liuu yxq nxfr avb hxiv kpr bavnr?

 liuu yxq, lxv'k yxq, liuu yxq, lxv'k yxq, liuu yxq hxiv kpr bavnr?
 liuu yxq, lxv'k yxq, liuu yxq, lxv'k yxq, lxv'k yxq hxiv kpr bavnr?

 "yxq nav erauuy pamr vx vxkixv pxl bruijpkdqu ik liuu cr
 lprv kpry kazr qt qg avb kpexl qt, likp kpr uxctkret, xqk kx tra!"
 cqk kpr tvaiu erguirb "kxx dae, kxx dae!" avb jamr a uxxz atzavnr--
 taib pr kpavzrb kpr lpikivj zivbuy, cqk pr lxqub vxk hxiv kpr bavnr.

 lxqub vxk, nxqub vxk, lxqub vxk, nxqub vxk, lxqub vxk hxiv kpr bavnr.
 lxqub vxk, nxqub vxk, lxqub vxk, nxqub vxk, nxqub vxk hxiv kpr bavnr.

 '"lpak fakkret ik pxl dae lr jx?" pit tnauy deirvb erguirb.
 "kprer it avxkpre tpxer, yxq zvxl, qgxv kpr xkpre tibr.
 kpr dqekpre xdd dexf rvjuavb kpr vraere it kx deavnr--
 kprv kqev vxk gaur, cruxmrb tvaiu, cqk nxfr avb hxiv kpr bavnr.

 liuu yxq, lxv'k yxq, liuu yxq, lxv'k yxq, liuu yxq hxiv kpr bavnr?
 liuu yxq, lxv'k yxq, liuu yxq, lxv'k yxq, lxv'k yxq hxiv kpr bavnr?"'

'kpavz yxq, ik't a mrey ivkrertkivj bavnr kx laknp,' taib auinr, drruivj
mrey juab kpak ik lat xmre ak uatk: 'avb i bx tx uizr kpak nqeixqt txvj
acxqk kpr lpikivj!'

'xp, at kx kpr lpikivj,' taib kpr fxnz kqekur, 'kpry--yxq'mr trrv kprf,
xd nxqetr?'

'yrt,' taib auinr, 'i'mr xdkrv trrv kprf ak bivv--' tpr nprnzrb pretrud
patkiuy.

'i bxv'k zvxl lprer bivv fay cr,' taib kpr fxnz kqekur, 'cqk id yxq'mr
trrv kprf tx xdkrv, xd nxqetr yxq zvxl lpak kpry'er uizr.'

'i cruirmr tx,' auinr erguirb kpxqjpkdquuy. 'kpry pamr kprie kaiut iv
kprie fxqkpt--avb kpry'er auu xmre neqfct.'

'yxq'er lexvj acxqk kpr neqfct,' taib kpr fxnz kqekur: 'neqfct lxqub auu
latp xdd iv kpr tra. cqk kpry pamr kprie kaiut iv kprie fxqkpt; avb kpr
eratxv it--' prer kpr fxnz kqekur yalvrb avb tpqk pit ryrt.--'kruu pre
acxqk kpr eratxv avb auu kpak,' pr taib kx kpr jeygpxv.

'kpr eratxv it,' taib kpr jeygpxv, 'kpak kpry lxqub jx likp kpr uxctkret
kx kpr bavnr. tx kpry jxk kpexlv xqk kx tra. tx kpry pab kx dauu a uxvj
lay. tx kpry jxk kprie kaiut datk iv kprie fxqkpt. tx kpry nxqubv'k jrk
kprf xqk ajaiv. kpak't auu.'

'kpavz yxq,' taib auinr, 'ik't mrey ivkrertkivj. i vrmre zvrl tx fqnp
acxqk a lpikivj crdxer.'

'i nav kruu yxq fxer kpav kpak, id yxq uizr,' taib kpr jeygpxv. 'bx yxq
zvxl lpy ik't nauurb a lpikivj?'

'i vrmre kpxqjpk acxqk ik,' taib auinr. 'lpy?'

'ik bxrt kpr cxxkt avb tpxrt.' kpr jeygpxv erguirb mrey txurfvuy.

auinr lat kpxexqjpuy gqssurb. 'bxrt kpr cxxkt avb tpxrt!' tpr ergrakrb
iv a lxvbreivj kxvr.

'lpy, lpak aer yxqe tpxrt bxvr likp?' taib kpr jeygpxv. 'i frav, lpak
fazrt kprf tx tpivy?'

auinr uxxzrb bxlv ak kprf, avb nxvtibrerb a uikkur crdxer tpr jamr pre
avtlre. 'kpry'er bxvr likp cuanzivj, i cruirmr.'

'cxxkt avb tpxrt qvbre kpr tra,' kpr jeygpxv lrvk xv iv a brrg mxinr,
'aer bxvr likp a lpikivj. vxl yxq zvxl.'

'avb lpak aer kpry fabr xd?' auinr atzrb iv a kxvr xd jerak nqeixtiky.

'txurt avb rrut, xd nxqetr,' kpr jeygpxv erguirb eakpre ifgakirvkuy:
'avy tpeifg nxqub pamr kxub yxq kpak.'

'id i'b crrv kpr lpikivj,' taib auinr, lpxtr kpxqjpkt lrer tkiuu eqvvivj
xv kpr txvj, 'i'b pamr taib kx kpr gxegxitr, "zrrg canz, guratr: lr
bxv'k lavk yxq likp qt!"'

'kpry lrer xcuijrb kx pamr pif likp kprf,' kpr fxnz kqekur taib: 'vx
litr ditp lxqub jx avylprer likpxqk a gxegxitr.'

'lxqubv'k ik erauuy?' taib auinr iv a kxvr xd jerak tqegeitr.

'xd nxqetr vxk,' taib kpr fxnz kqekur: 'lpy, id a ditp nafr kx fr, avb
kxub fr pr lat jxivj a hxqevry, i tpxqub tay "likp lpak gxegxitr?"'

'bxv'k yxq frav "gqegxtr"?' taib auinr.

'i frav lpak i tay,' kpr fxnz kqekur erguirb iv av xddrvbrb kxvr. avb
kpr jeygpxv abbrb 'nxfr, urk't prae txfr xd yxqe abmrvkqert.'

'i nxqub kruu yxq fy abmrvkqert--crjivvivj dexf kpit fxevivj,' taib
auinr a uikkur kifibuy: 'cqk ik't vx qtr jxivj canz kx yrtkrebay,
crnaqtr i lat a biddrervk gretxv kprv.'

'roguaiv auu kpak,' taib kpr fxnz kqekur.

'vx, vx! kpr abmrvkqert dietk,' taib kpr jeygpxv iv av ifgakirvk kxvr:
'roguavakixvt kazr tqnp a berabdqu kifr.'

tx auinr crjav kruuivj kprf pre abmrvkqert dexf kpr kifr lprv tpr dietk
tal kpr lpikr eaccik. tpr lat a uikkur vremxqt acxqk ik hqtk ak dietk,
kpr klx nerakqert jxk tx nuxtr kx pre, xvr xv ranp tibr, avb xgrvrb
kprie ryrt avb fxqkpt tx mrey libr, cqk tpr jaivrb nxqeajr at tpr lrvk
xv. pre uitkrvret lrer gredrnkuy wqirk kiuu tpr jxk kx kpr gaek acxqk
pre ergrakivj 'yxq aer xub, dakpre liuuiaf,' kx kpr nakregiuuae, avb kpr
lxebt auu nxfivj biddrervk, avb kprv kpr fxnz kqekur berl a uxvj cerakp,
avb taib 'kpak't mrey nqeixqt.'

'ik't auu acxqk at nqeixqt at ik nav cr,' taib kpr jeygpxv.

'ik auu nafr biddrervk!' kpr fxnz kqekur ergrakrb kpxqjpkdquuy. 'i
tpxqub uizr kx prae pre key avb ergrak txfrkpivj vxl. kruu pre kx
crjiv.' pr uxxzrb ak kpr jeygpxv at id pr kpxqjpk ik pab txfr zivb xd
aqkpxeiky xmre auinr.

'tkavb qg avb ergrak "'kit kpr mxinr xd kpr tuqjjaeb,"' taib kpr
jeygpxv.

'pxl kpr nerakqert xebre xvr acxqk, avb fazr xvr ergrak urttxvt!'
kpxqjpk auinr; 'i fijpk at lruu cr ak tnpxxu ak xvnr.' pxlrmre, tpr
jxk qg, avb crjav kx ergrak ik, cqk pre prab lat tx dquu xd kpr uxctkre
wqabeiuur, kpak tpr paebuy zvrl lpak tpr lat tayivj, avb kpr lxebt nafr
mrey wqrre ivbrrb:--

  ''kit kpr mxinr xd kpr uxctkre; i praeb pif brnuaer,
  "yxq pamr cazrb fr kxx cexlv, i fqtk tqjae fy paie."
  at a bqnz likp ikt ryruibt, tx pr likp pit vxtr
  keift pit cruk avb pit cqkkxvt, avb kqevt xqk pit kxrt.'

       [uakre rbikixvt nxvkivqrb at dxuuxlt
  lprv kpr tavbt aer auu bey, pr it jay at a uaez,
  avb liuu kauz iv nxvkrfgkqxqt kxvrt xd kpr tpaez,
  cqk, lprv kpr kibr eitrt avb tpaezt aer aexqvb,
  pit mxinr pat a kifib avb kerfquxqt txqvb.]

'kpak't biddrervk dexf lpak i qtrb kx tay lprv i lat a npiub,' taib kpr
jeygpxv.

'lruu, i vrmre praeb ik crdxer,' taib kpr fxnz kqekur; 'cqk ik txqvbt
qvnxffxv vxvtrvtr.'

auinr taib vxkpivj; tpr pab tak bxlv likp pre danr iv pre pavbt,
lxvbreivj id avykpivj lxqub rmre paggrv iv a vakqeau lay ajaiv.

'i tpxqub uizr kx pamr ik roguaivrb,' taib kpr fxnz kqekur.

'tpr nav'k roguaiv ik,' taib kpr jeygpxv patkiuy. 'jx xv likp kpr vrok
mretr.'

'cqk acxqk pit kxrt?' kpr fxnz kqekur gretitkrb. 'pxl nxqub pr kqev kprf
xqk likp pit vxtr, yxq zvxl?'

'ik't kpr dietk gxtikixv iv bavnivj.' auinr taib; cqk lat berabdquuy
gqssurb cy kpr lpxur kpivj, avb uxvjrb kx npavjr kpr tqchrnk.

'jx xv likp kpr vrok mretr,' kpr jeygpxv ergrakrb ifgakirvkuy: 'ik
crjivt "i gattrb cy pit jaebrv."'

auinr bib vxk baer kx bitxcry, kpxqjp tpr druk tqer ik lxqub auu nxfr
lexvj, avb tpr lrvk xv iv a kerfcuivj mxinr:--

  'i gattrb cy pit jaebrv, avb faezrb, likp xvr ryr,
  pxl kpr xlu avb kpr gavkpre lrer tpaeivj a gir--'

    [uakre rbikixvt nxvkivqrb at dxuuxlt
  kpr gavkpre kxxz gir-neqtk, avb jeamy, avb frak,
  lpiur kpr xlu pab kpr bitp at ikt tpaer xd kpr kerak.
  lprv kpr gir lat auu divitprb, kpr xlu, at a cxxv,
  lat zivbuy grefikkrb kx gxnzrk kpr tgxxv:
  lpiur kpr gavkpre ernrimrb zvidr avb dxez likp a jexlu,
  avb nxvnuqbrb kpr cavwqrk--]

'lpak it kpr qtr xd ergrakivj auu kpak tkqdd,' kpr fxnz kqekur
ivkreeqgkrb, 'id yxq bxv'k roguaiv ik at yxq jx xv? ik't cy dae kpr fxtk
nxvdqtivj kpivj i rmre praeb!'

'yrt, i kpivz yxq'b crkkre uramr xdd,' taib kpr jeygpxv: avb auinr lat
xvuy kxx juab kx bx tx.

'tpauu lr key avxkpre dijqer xd kpr uxctkre wqabeiuur?' kpr jeygpxv lrvk
xv. 'xe lxqub yxq uizr kpr fxnz kqekur kx tivj yxq a txvj?'

'xp, a txvj, guratr, id kpr fxnz kqekur lxqub cr tx zivb,' auinr
erguirb, tx rajreuy kpak kpr jeygpxv taib, iv a eakpre xddrvbrb kxvr,
'pf! vx annxqvkivj dxe katkrt! tivj pre "kqekur txqg," liuu yxq, xub
druuxl?'

kpr fxnz kqekur tijprb brrguy, avb crjav, iv a mxinr txfrkifrt npxzrb
likp txct, kx tivj kpit:--

   'craqkidqu txqg, tx einp avb jerrv,
   laikivj iv a pxk kqerrv!
   lpx dxe tqnp baivkirt lxqub vxk tkxxg?
   txqg xd kpr rmrvivj, craqkidqu txqg!
   txqg xd kpr rmrvivj, craqkidqu txqg!
     craq--xxkidqu txx--xxg!
     craq--xxkidqu txx--xxg!
   txx--xxg xd kpr r--r--rmrvivj,
     craqkidqu, craqkidqu txqg!

   'craqkidqu txqg! lpx naert dxe ditp,
   jafr, xe avy xkpre bitp?
   lpx lxqub vxk jimr auu rutr dxe klx
   grvvylxekp xvuy xd craqkidqu txqg?
   grvvylxekp xvuy xd craqkidqu txqg?
     craq--xxkidqu txx--xxg!
     craq--xxkidqu txx--xxg!
   txx--xxg xd kpr r--r--rmrvivj,
     craqkidqu, craqki--dqu txqg!'

'npxeqt ajaiv!' neirb kpr jeygpxv, avb kpr fxnz kqekur pab hqtk crjqv
kx ergrak ik, lprv a ney xd 'kpr keiau't crjivvivj!' lat praeb iv kpr
bitkavnr.

'nxfr xv!' neirb kpr jeygpxv, avb, kazivj auinr cy kpr pavb, ik pqeeirb
xdd, likpxqk laikivj dxe kpr rvb xd kpr txvj.

'lpak keiau it ik?' auinr gavkrb at tpr eav; cqk kpr jeygpxv xvuy
avtlrerb 'nxfr xv!' avb eav kpr datkre, lpiur fxer avb fxer daivkuy
nafr, naeeirb xv kpr cerrsr kpak dxuuxlrb kprf, kpr fruavnpxuy lxebt:--

   'txx--xxg xd kpr r--r--rmrvivj,
     craqkidqu, craqkidqu txqg!'




npagkre oi. lpx tkxur kpr kaekt?

kpr zivj avb wqrrv xd praekt lrer trakrb xv kprie kpexvr lprv kpry
aeeimrb, likp a jerak nexlb attrfcurb acxqk kprf--auu txekt xd uikkur
ciebt avb cratkt, at lruu at kpr lpxur ganz xd naebt: kpr zvamr lat
tkavbivj crdxer kprf, iv npaivt, likp a txubire xv ranp tibr kx jqaeb
pif; avb vrae kpr zivj lat kpr lpikr eaccik, likp a keqfgrk iv xvr pavb,
avb a tnexuu xd gaenpfrvk iv kpr xkpre. iv kpr mrey fibbur xd kpr nxqek
lat a kacur, likp a uaejr bitp xd kaekt qgxv ik: kpry uxxzrb tx jxxb,
kpak ik fabr auinr wqikr pqvjey kx uxxz ak kprf--'i litp kpry'b jrk kpr
keiau bxvr,' tpr kpxqjpk, 'avb pavb exqvb kpr erdertpfrvkt!' cqk kprer
trrfrb kx cr vx npavnr xd kpit, tx tpr crjav uxxzivj ak rmreykpivj acxqk
pre, kx gatt alay kpr kifr.

auinr pab vrmre crrv iv a nxqek xd hqtkinr crdxer, cqk tpr pab erab
acxqk kprf iv cxxzt, avb tpr lat wqikr guratrb kx divb kpak tpr zvrl
kpr vafr xd vraeuy rmreykpivj kprer. 'kpak't kpr hqbjr,' tpr taib kx
pretrud, 'crnaqtr xd pit jerak lij.'

kpr hqbjr, cy kpr lay, lat kpr zivj; avb at pr lxer pit nexlv xmre kpr
lij, (uxxz ak kpr dexvkitgirnr id yxq lavk kx trr pxl pr bib ik,) pr bib
vxk uxxz ak auu nxfdxekacur, avb ik lat nrekaivuy vxk crnxfivj.

'avb kpak't kpr hqey-cxo,' kpxqjpk auinr, 'avb kpxtr klrumr nerakqert,'
(tpr lat xcuijrb kx tay 'nerakqert,' yxq trr, crnaqtr txfr xd kprf lrer
avifaut, avb txfr lrer ciebt,) 'i tqggxtr kpry aer kpr hqexet.' tpr taib
kpit uatk lxeb klx xe kperr kifrt xmre kx pretrud, crivj eakpre gexqb xd
ik: dxe tpr kpxqjpk, avb eijpkuy kxx, kpak mrey drl uikkur jieut xd pre
ajr zvrl kpr fravivj xd ik ak auu. pxlrmre, 'hqey-frv' lxqub pamr bxvr
hqtk at lruu.

kpr klrumr hqexet lrer auu leikivj mrey cqtiuy xv tuakrt. 'lpak aer kpry
bxivj?' auinr lpitgrerb kx kpr jeygpxv. 'kpry nav'k pamr avykpivj kx gqk
bxlv yrk, crdxer kpr keiau't crjqv.'

'kpry'er gqkkivj bxlv kprie vafrt,' kpr jeygpxv lpitgrerb iv erguy, 'dxe
drae kpry tpxqub dxejrk kprf crdxer kpr rvb xd kpr keiau.'

'tkqgib kpivjt!' auinr crjav iv a uxqb, ivbijvavk mxinr, cqk tpr tkxggrb
patkiuy, dxe kpr lpikr eaccik neirb xqk, 'tiurvnr iv kpr nxqek!' avb kpr
zivj gqk xv pit tgrnkanurt avb uxxzrb avoixqtuy exqvb, kx fazr xqk lpx
lat kauzivj.

auinr nxqub trr, at lruu at id tpr lrer uxxzivj xmre kprie tpxqubret,
kpak auu kpr hqexet lrer leikivj bxlv 'tkqgib kpivjt!' xv kprie tuakrt,
avb tpr nxqub rmrv fazr xqk kpak xvr xd kprf bibv'k zvxl pxl kx tgruu
'tkqgib,' avb kpak pr pab kx atz pit vrijpcxqe kx kruu pif. 'a vinr
fqbbur kprie tuakrt'uu cr iv crdxer kpr keiau't xmre!' kpxqjpk auinr.

xvr xd kpr hqexet pab a grvniu kpak twqrazrb. kpit xd nxqetr, auinr
nxqub vxk tkavb, avb tpr lrvk exqvb kpr nxqek avb jxk crpivb pif, avb
mrey txxv dxqvb av xggxekqviky xd kazivj ik alay. tpr bib ik tx wqinzuy
kpak kpr gxxe uikkur hqexe (ik lat ciuu, kpr uisaeb) nxqub vxk fazr xqk
ak auu lpak pab crnxfr xd ik; tx, adkre pqvkivj auu acxqk dxe ik, pr lat
xcuijrb kx leikr likp xvr divjre dxe kpr ertk xd kpr bay; avb kpit lat
xd mrey uikkur qtr, at ik urdk vx faez xv kpr tuakr.

'preaub, erab kpr annqtakixv!' taib kpr zivj.

xv kpit kpr lpikr eaccik curl kperr cuatkt xv kpr keqfgrk, avb kprv
qvexuurb kpr gaenpfrvk tnexuu, avb erab at dxuuxlt:--

   'kpr wqrrv xd praekt, tpr fabr txfr kaekt,
      auu xv a tqffre bay:
    kpr zvamr xd praekt, pr tkxur kpxtr kaekt,
      avb kxxz kprf wqikr alay!'

'nxvtibre yxqe mrebink,' kpr zivj taib kx kpr hqey.

'vxk yrk, vxk yrk!' kpr eaccik patkiuy ivkreeqgkrb. 'kprer't a jerak
brau kx nxfr crdxer kpak!'

'nauu kpr dietk likvrtt,' taib kpr zivj; avb kpr lpikr eaccik curl kperr
cuatkt xv kpr keqfgrk, avb nauurb xqk, 'dietk likvrtt!'

kpr dietk likvrtt lat kpr pakkre. pr nafr iv likp a kranqg iv xvr
pavb avb a girnr xd cerab-avb-cqkkre iv kpr xkpre. 'i crj gaebxv, yxqe
fahrtky,' pr crjav, 'dxe ceivjivj kprtr iv: cqk i pabv'k wqikr divitprb
fy kra lprv i lat trvk dxe.'

'yxq xqjpk kx pamr divitprb,' taib kpr zivj. 'lprv bib yxq crjiv?'

kpr pakkre uxxzrb ak kpr faenp paer, lpx pab dxuuxlrb pif ivkx kpr
nxqek, aef-iv-aef likp kpr bxefxqtr. 'dxqekrrvkp xd faenp, i kpivz ik
lat,' pr taib.

'didkrrvkp,' taib kpr faenp paer.

'tiokrrvkp,' abbrb kpr bxefxqtr.

'leikr kpak bxlv,' kpr zivj taib kx kpr hqey, avb kpr hqey rajreuy
lexkr bxlv auu kperr bakrt xv kprie tuakrt, avb kprv abbrb kprf qg, avb
erbqnrb kpr avtlre kx tpiuuivjt avb grvnr.

'kazr xdd yxqe pak,' kpr zivj taib kx kpr pakkre.

'ik itv'k fivr,' taib kpr pakkre.

'tkxurv!' kpr zivj ronuaifrb, kqevivj kx kpr hqey, lpx ivtkavkuy fabr a
frfxeavbqf xd kpr dank.

'i zrrg kprf kx truu,' kpr pakkre abbrb at av roguavakixv; 'i'mr vxvr xd
fy xlv. i'f a pakkre.'

prer kpr wqrrv gqk xv pre tgrnkanurt, avb crjav tkaeivj ak kpr pakkre,
lpx kqevrb gaur avb dibjrkrb.

'jimr yxqe rmibrvnr,' taib kpr zivj; 'avb bxv'k cr vremxqt, xe i'uu pamr
yxq rornqkrb xv kpr tgxk.'

kpit bib vxk trrf kx rvnxqeajr kpr likvrtt ak auu: pr zrgk tpidkivj
dexf xvr dxxk kx kpr xkpre, uxxzivj qvratiuy ak kpr wqrrv, avb iv
pit nxvdqtixv pr cik a uaejr girnr xqk xd pit kranqg ivtkrab xd kpr
cerab-avb-cqkkre.

hqtk ak kpit fxfrvk auinr druk a mrey nqeixqt trvtakixv, lpinp gqssurb
pre a jxxb brau qvkiu tpr fabr xqk lpak ik lat: tpr lat crjivvivj kx
jexl uaejre ajaiv, avb tpr kpxqjpk ak dietk tpr lxqub jrk qg avb uramr
kpr nxqek; cqk xv trnxvb kpxqjpkt tpr brnibrb kx erfaiv lprer tpr lat at
uxvj at kprer lat exxf dxe pre.

'i litp yxq lxqubv'k twqrrsr tx.' taib kpr bxefxqtr, lpx lat tikkivj
vrok kx pre. 'i nav paebuy cerakpr.'

'i nav'k prug ik,' taib auinr mrey frrzuy: 'i'f jexlivj.'

'yxq'mr vx eijpk kx jexl prer,' taib kpr bxefxqtr.

'bxv'k kauz vxvtrvtr,' taib auinr fxer cxubuy: 'yxq zvxl yxq'er jexlivj
kxx.'

'yrt, cqk i jexl ak a eratxvacur ganr,' taib kpr bxefxqtr: 'vxk iv kpak
eibinquxqt datpixv.' avb pr jxk qg mrey tquziuy avb nexttrb xmre kx kpr
xkpre tibr xd kpr nxqek.

auu kpit kifr kpr wqrrv pab vrmre urdk xdd tkaeivj ak kpr pakkre, avb,
hqtk at kpr bxefxqtr nexttrb kpr nxqek, tpr taib kx xvr xd kpr xddinret
xd kpr nxqek, 'ceivj fr kpr uitk xd kpr tivjret iv kpr uatk nxvnrek!' xv
lpinp kpr lerknprb pakkre kerfcurb tx, kpak pr tpxxz cxkp pit tpxrt xdd.

'jimr yxqe rmibrvnr,' kpr zivj ergrakrb avjeiuy, 'xe i'uu pamr yxq
rornqkrb, lprkpre yxq'er vremxqt xe vxk.'

'i'f a gxxe fav, yxqe fahrtky,' kpr pakkre crjav, iv a kerfcuivj mxinr,
'--avb i pabv'k crjqv fy kra--vxk acxmr a lrrz xe tx--avb lpak likp kpr
cerab-avb-cqkkre jrkkivj tx kpiv--avb kpr klivzuivj xd kpr kra--'

'kpr klivzuivj xd kpr lpak?' taib kpr zivj.

'ik crjav likp kpr kra,' kpr pakkre erguirb.

'xd nxqetr klivzuivj crjivt likp a k!' taib kpr zivj tpaeguy. 'bx yxq
kazr fr dxe a bqvnr? jx xv!'

'i'f a gxxe fav,' kpr pakkre lrvk xv, 'avb fxtk kpivjt klivzurb adkre
kpak--xvuy kpr faenp paer taib--'

'i bibv'k!' kpr faenp paer ivkreeqgkrb iv a jerak pqeey.

'yxq bib!' taib kpr pakkre.

'i brvy ik!' taib kpr faenp paer.

'pr brvirt ik,' taib kpr zivj: 'uramr xqk kpak gaek.'

'lruu, ak avy eakr, kpr bxefxqtr taib--' kpr pakkre lrvk xv, uxxzivj
avoixqtuy exqvb kx trr id pr lxqub brvy ik kxx: cqk kpr bxefxqtr brvirb
vxkpivj, crivj datk aturrg.

'adkre kpak,' nxvkivqrb kpr pakkre, 'i nqk txfr fxer cerab-avb-cqkkre--'

'cqk lpak bib kpr bxefxqtr tay?' xvr xd kpr hqey atzrb.

'kpak i nav'k erfrfcre,' taib kpr pakkre.

'yxq fqtk erfrfcre,' erfaezrb kpr zivj, 'xe i'uu pamr yxq rornqkrb.'

kpr fitreacur pakkre bexggrb pit kranqg avb cerab-avb-cqkkre, avb lrvk
bxlv xv xvr zvrr. 'i'f a gxxe fav, yxqe fahrtky,' pr crjav.

'yxq'er a mrey gxxe tgrazre,' taib kpr zivj.

prer xvr xd kpr jqivra-gijt nprrerb, avb lat iffrbiakruy tqggerttrb cy
kpr xddinret xd kpr nxqek. (at kpak it eakpre a paeb lxeb, i liuu hqtk
roguaiv kx yxq pxl ik lat bxvr. kpry pab a uaejr navmat caj, lpinp kirb
qg ak kpr fxqkp likp tkeivjt: ivkx kpit kpry tuiggrb kpr jqivra-gij,
prab dietk, avb kprv tak qgxv ik.)

'i'f juab i'mr trrv kpak bxvr,' kpxqjpk auinr. 'i'mr tx xdkrv erab
iv kpr vrltgagret, ak kpr rvb xd keiaut, "kprer lat txfr akkrfgkt
ak agguaqtr, lpinp lat iffrbiakruy tqggerttrb cy kpr xddinret xd kpr
nxqek," avb i vrmre qvbretkxxb lpak ik fravk kiuu vxl.'

'id kpak't auu yxq zvxl acxqk ik, yxq fay tkavb bxlv,' nxvkivqrb kpr
zivj.

'i nav'k jx vx uxlre,' taib kpr pakkre: 'i'f xv kpr duxxe, at ik it.'

'kprv yxq fay tik bxlv,' kpr zivj erguirb.

prer kpr xkpre jqivra-gij nprrerb, avb lat tqggerttrb.

'nxfr, kpak divitprb kpr jqivra-gijt!' kpxqjpk auinr. 'vxl lr tpauu jrk
xv crkkre.'

'i'b eakpre divitp fy kra,' taib kpr pakkre, likp av avoixqt uxxz ak kpr
wqrrv, lpx lat erabivj kpr uitk xd tivjret.

'yxq fay jx,' taib kpr zivj, avb kpr pakkre pqeeirbuy urdk kpr nxqek,
likpxqk rmrv laikivj kx gqk pit tpxrt xv.

'--avb hqtk kazr pit prab xdd xqktibr,' kpr wqrrv abbrb kx xvr xd kpr
xddinret: cqk kpr pakkre lat xqk xd tijpk crdxer kpr xddinre nxqub jrk
kx kpr bxxe.

'nauu kpr vrok likvrtt!' taib kpr zivj.

kpr vrok likvrtt lat kpr bqnprtt't nxxz. tpr naeeirb kpr grggre-cxo iv
pre pavb, avb auinr jqrttrb lpx ik lat, rmrv crdxer tpr jxk ivkx kpr
nxqek, cy kpr lay kpr grxgur vrae kpr bxxe crjav tvrrsivj auu ak xvnr.

'jimr yxqe rmibrvnr,' taib kpr zivj.

'tpav'k,' taib kpr nxxz.

kpr zivj uxxzrb avoixqtuy ak kpr lpikr eaccik, lpx taib iv a uxl mxinr,
'yxqe fahrtky fqtk nextt-roafivr kpit likvrtt.'

'lruu, id i fqtk, i fqtk,' kpr zivj taib, likp a fruavnpxuy aie, avb,
adkre dxubivj pit aeft avb dexlvivj ak kpr nxxz kiuu pit ryrt lrer
vraeuy xqk xd tijpk, pr taib iv a brrg mxinr, 'lpak aer kaekt fabr xd?'

'grggre, fxtkuy,' taib kpr nxxz.

'keranur,' taib a turrgy mxinr crpivb pre.

'nxuuae kpak bxefxqtr,' kpr wqrrv tpeirzrb xqk. 'crprab kpak bxefxqtr!
kqev kpak bxefxqtr xqk xd nxqek! tqggertt pif! givnp pif! xdd likp pit
lpitzret!'

dxe txfr fivqkrt kpr lpxur nxqek lat iv nxvdqtixv, jrkkivj kpr bxefxqtr
kqevrb xqk, avb, cy kpr kifr kpry pab trkkurb bxlv ajaiv, kpr nxxz pab
bitaggraerb.

'vrmre fivb!' taib kpr zivj, likp av aie xd jerak eruird. 'nauu kpr vrok
likvrtt.' avb pr abbrb iv av qvbrekxvr kx kpr wqrrv, 'erauuy, fy brae,
yxq fqtk nextt-roafivr kpr vrok likvrtt. ik wqikr fazrt fy dxerprab
anpr!'

auinr laknprb kpr lpikr eaccik at pr dqfcurb xmre kpr uitk, drruivj mrey
nqeixqt kx trr lpak kpr vrok likvrtt lxqub cr uizr, '--dxe kpry pamrv'k
jxk fqnp rmibrvnr yrk,' tpr taib kx pretrud. ifajivr pre tqegeitr, lprv
kpr lpikr eaccik erab xqk, ak kpr kxg xd pit tpeiuu uikkur mxinr, kpr
vafr 'auinr!'




npagkre oii. auinr't rmibrvnr


'prer!' neirb auinr, wqikr dxejrkkivj iv kpr duqeey xd kpr fxfrvk pxl
uaejr tpr pab jexlv iv kpr uatk drl fivqkrt, avb tpr hqfgrb qg iv tqnp
a pqeey kpak tpr kiggrb xmre kpr hqey-cxo likp kpr rbjr xd pre tziek,
qgtrkkivj auu kpr hqeyfrv xv kx kpr prabt xd kpr nexlb cruxl, avb kprer
kpry uay tgealuivj acxqk, erfivbivj pre mrey fqnp xd a juxcr xd jxubditp
tpr pab annibrvkauuy qgtrk kpr lrrz crdxer.

'xp, i crj yxqe gaebxv!' tpr ronuaifrb iv a kxvr xd jerak bitfay, avb
crjav ginzivj kprf qg ajaiv at wqinzuy at tpr nxqub, dxe kpr annibrvk xd
kpr jxubditp zrgk eqvvivj iv pre prab, avb tpr pab a majqr txek xd ibra
kpak kpry fqtk cr nxuurnkrb ak xvnr avb gqk canz ivkx kpr hqey-cxo, xe
kpry lxqub bir.

'kpr keiau navvxk gexnrrb,' taib kpr zivj iv a mrey jeamr mxinr, 'qvkiu
auu kpr hqeyfrv aer canz iv kprie gexgre guanrt--auu,' pr ergrakrb likp
jerak rfgpatit, uxxzivj paeb ak auinr at pr taib bx.

auinr uxxzrb ak kpr hqey-cxo, avb tal kpak, iv pre patkr, tpr pab gqk
kpr uisaeb iv prab bxlvlaebt, avb kpr gxxe uikkur kpivj lat lamivj ikt
kaiu acxqk iv a fruavnpxuy lay, crivj wqikr qvacur kx fxmr. tpr txxv jxk
ik xqk ajaiv, avb gqk ik eijpk; 'vxk kpak ik tijvidirt fqnp,' tpr taib
kx pretrud; 'i tpxqub kpivz ik lxqub cr wqikr at fqnp qtr iv kpr keiau
xvr lay qg at kpr xkpre.'

at txxv at kpr hqey pab a uikkur ernxmrerb dexf kpr tpxnz xd crivj
qgtrk, avb kprie tuakrt avb grvniut pab crrv dxqvb avb pavbrb canz kx
kprf, kpry trk kx lxez mrey biuijrvkuy kx leikr xqk a pitkxey xd kpr
annibrvk, auu ronrgk kpr uisaeb, lpx trrfrb kxx fqnp xmrenxfr kx bx
avykpivj cqk tik likp ikt fxqkp xgrv, jasivj qg ivkx kpr exxd xd kpr
nxqek.

'lpak bx yxq zvxl acxqk kpit cqtivrtt?' kpr zivj taib kx auinr.

'vxkpivj,' taib auinr.

'vxkpivj lpakrmre?' gretitkrb kpr zivj.

'vxkpivj lpakrmre,' taib auinr.

'kpak't mrey ifgxekavk,' kpr zivj taib, kqevivj kx kpr hqey. kpry lrer
hqtk crjivvivj kx leikr kpit bxlv xv kprie tuakrt, lprv kpr lpikr eaccik
ivkreeqgkrb: 'qvifgxekavk, yxqe fahrtky fravt, xd nxqetr,' pr taib iv a
mrey ertgrnkdqu kxvr, cqk dexlvivj avb fazivj danrt ak pif at pr tgxzr.

'qvifgxekavk, xd nxqetr, i fravk,' kpr zivj patkiuy taib, avb lrvk xv
kx piftrud iv av qvbrekxvr,

'ifgxekavk--qvifgxekavk--qvifgxekavk--ifgxekavk--' at id pr lrer keyivj
lpinp lxeb txqvbrb crtk.

txfr xd kpr hqey lexkr ik bxlv 'ifgxekavk,' avb txfr 'qvifgxekavk.'
auinr nxqub trr kpit, at tpr lat vrae rvxqjp kx uxxz xmre kprie tuakrt;
'cqk ik bxrtv'k fakkre a cik,' tpr kpxqjpk kx pretrud.

ak kpit fxfrvk kpr zivj, lpx pab crrv dxe txfr kifr cqtiuy leikivj iv
pit vxkr-cxxz, nanzurb xqk 'tiurvnr!' avb erab xqk dexf pit cxxz, 'equr
dxeky-klx. auu gretxvt fxer kpav a fiur pijp kx uramr kpr nxqek.'

rmreycxby uxxzrb ak auinr.

'i'f vxk a fiur pijp,' taib auinr.

'yxq aer,' taib kpr zivj.

'vraeuy klx fiurt pijp,' abbrb kpr wqrrv.

'lruu, i tpav'k jx, ak avy eakr,' taib auinr: 'crtibrt, kpak't vxk a
erjquae equr: yxq ivmrvkrb ik hqtk vxl.'

'ik't kpr xubrtk equr iv kpr cxxz,' taib kpr zivj.

'kprv ik xqjpk kx cr vqfcre xvr,' taib auinr.

kpr zivj kqevrb gaur, avb tpqk pit vxkr-cxxz patkiuy. 'nxvtibre yxqe
mrebink,' pr taib kx kpr hqey, iv a uxl, kerfcuivj mxinr.

'kprer't fxer rmibrvnr kx nxfr yrk, guratr yxqe fahrtky,' taib kpr lpikr
eaccik, hqfgivj qg iv a jerak pqeey; 'kpit gagre pat hqtk crrv ginzrb
qg.'

'lpak't iv ik?' taib kpr wqrrv.

'i pamrv'k xgrvrb ik yrk,' taib kpr lpikr eaccik, 'cqk ik trrft kx cr a
urkkre, leikkrv cy kpr geitxvre kx--kx txfrcxby.'

'ik fqtk pamr crrv kpak,' taib kpr zivj, 'qvurtt ik lat leikkrv kx
vxcxby, lpinp itv'k qtqau, yxq zvxl.'

'lpx it ik biernkrb kx?' taib xvr xd kpr hqeyfrv.

'ik itv'k biernkrb ak auu,' taib kpr lpikr eaccik; 'iv dank, kprer't
vxkpivj leikkrv xv kpr xqktibr.' pr qvdxubrb kpr gagre at pr tgxzr, avb
abbrb 'ik itv'k a urkkre, adkre auu: ik't a trk xd mretrt.'

'aer kpry iv kpr geitxvre't pavbleikivj?' atzrb avxkpre xd kpr hqeyfrv.

'vx, kpry'er vxk,' taib kpr lpikr eaccik, 'avb kpak't kpr wqrrertk kpivj
acxqk ik.' (kpr hqey auu uxxzrb gqssurb.)

'pr fqtk pamr ifikakrb txfrcxby rutr't pavb,' taib kpr zivj. (kpr hqey
auu ceijpkrvrb qg ajaiv.)

'guratr yxqe fahrtky,' taib kpr zvamr, 'i bibv'k leikr ik, avb kpry
nav'k gexmr i bib: kprer't vx vafr tijvrb ak kpr rvb.'

'id yxq bibv'k tijv ik,' taib kpr zivj, 'kpak xvuy fazrt kpr fakkre
lxetr. yxq fqtk pamr fravk txfr fitnpird, xe rutr yxq'b pamr tijvrb yxqe
vafr uizr av pxvrtk fav.'

kprer lat a jrvreau nuaggivj xd pavbt ak kpit: ik lat kpr dietk erauuy
nurmre kpivj kpr zivj pab taib kpak bay.

'kpak gexmrt pit jqiuk,' taib kpr wqrrv.

'ik gexmrt vxkpivj xd kpr txek!' taib auinr. 'lpy, yxq bxv'k rmrv zvxl
lpak kpry'er acxqk!'

'erab kprf,' taib kpr zivj.

kpr lpikr eaccik gqk xv pit tgrnkanurt. 'lprer tpauu i crjiv, guratr
yxqe fahrtky?' pr atzrb.

'crjiv ak kpr crjivvivj,' kpr zivj taib jeamruy, 'avb jx xv kiuu yxq
nxfr kx kpr rvb: kprv tkxg.'

kprtr lrer kpr mretrt kpr lpikr eaccik erab:--

   'kpry kxub fr yxq pab crrv kx pre,
    avb frvkixvrb fr kx pif:
   tpr jamr fr a jxxb npaeankre,
    cqk taib i nxqub vxk tlif.

   pr trvk kprf lxeb i pab vxk jxvr
    (lr zvxl ik kx cr keqr):
   id tpr tpxqub gqtp kpr fakkre xv,
    lpak lxqub crnxfr xd yxq?

   i jamr pre xvr, kpry jamr pif klx,
    yxq jamr qt kperr xe fxer;
   kpry auu erkqevrb dexf pif kx yxq,
    kpxqjp kpry lrer fivr crdxer.

   id i xe tpr tpxqub npavnr kx cr
    ivmxumrb iv kpit addaie,
   pr keqtkt kx yxq kx trk kprf derr,
    roankuy at lr lrer.

   fy vxkixv lat kpak yxq pab crrv
    (crdxer tpr pab kpit dik)
   av xctkanur kpak nafr crklrrv
    pif, avb xqetrumrt, avb ik.

   bxv'k urk pif zvxl tpr uizrb kprf crtk,
    dxe kpit fqtk rmre cr
   a trnerk, zrgk dexf auu kpr ertk,
    crklrrv yxqetrud avb fr.'

'kpak't kpr fxtk ifgxekavk girnr xd rmibrvnr lr'mr praeb yrk,' taib kpr
zivj, eqccivj pit pavbt; 'tx vxl urk kpr hqey--'

'id avy xvr xd kprf nav roguaiv ik,' taib auinr, (tpr pab jexlv tx uaejr
iv kpr uatk drl fivqkrt kpak tpr latv'k a cik adeaib xd ivkreeqgkivj
pif,) 'i'uu jimr pif tiogrvnr. _i_ bxv'k cruirmr kprer't av akxf xd
fravivj iv ik.'

kpr hqey auu lexkr bxlv xv kprie tuakrt, 'tpr bxrtv'k cruirmr kprer't av
akxf xd fravivj iv ik,' cqk vxvr xd kprf akkrfgkrb kx roguaiv kpr gagre.

'id kprer't vx fravivj iv ik,' taib kpr zivj, 'kpak tamrt a lxeub xd
kexqcur, yxq zvxl, at lr vrrbv'k key kx divb avy. avb yrk i bxv'k zvxl,'
pr lrvk xv, tgerabivj xqk kpr mretrt xv pit zvrr, avb uxxzivj ak kprf
likp xvr ryr; 'i trrf kx trr txfr fravivj iv kprf, adkre auu. "--taib
i nxqub vxk tlif--" yxq nav'k tlif, nav yxq?' pr abbrb, kqevivj kx kpr
zvamr.

kpr zvamr tpxxz pit prab tabuy. 'bx i uxxz uizr ik?' pr taib. (lpinp pr
nrekaivuy bib vxk, crivj fabr rvkieruy xd naebcxaeb.)

'auu eijpk, tx dae,' taib kpr zivj, avb pr lrvk xv fqkkreivj xmre
kpr mretrt kx piftrud: '"lr zvxl ik kx cr keqr--" kpak't kpr hqey, xd
nxqetr--"i jamr pre xvr, kpry jamr pif klx--" lpy, kpak fqtk cr lpak pr
bib likp kpr kaekt, yxq zvxl--'

'cqk, ik jxrt xv "kpry auu erkqevrb dexf pif kx yxq,"' taib auinr.

'lpy, kprer kpry aer!' taib kpr zivj keiqfgpavkuy, gxivkivj kx kpr kaekt
xv kpr kacur. 'vxkpivj nav cr nuraere kpav kpak. kprv ajaiv--"crdxer tpr
pab kpit dik--" yxq vrmre pab dikt, fy brae, i kpivz?' pr taib kx kpr
wqrrv.

'vrmre!' taib kpr wqrrv dqeixqtuy, kpexlivj av ivztkavb ak kpr uisaeb
at tpr tgxzr. (kpr qvdxekqvakr uikkur ciuu pab urdk xdd leikivj xv pit
tuakr likp xvr divjre, at pr dxqvb ik fabr vx faez; cqk pr vxl patkiuy
crjav ajaiv, qtivj kpr ivz, kpak lat keinzuivj bxlv pit danr, at uxvj at
ik uatkrb.)

'kprv kpr lxebt bxv'k dik yxq,' taib kpr zivj, uxxzivj exqvb kpr nxqek
likp a tfiur. kprer lat a brab tiurvnr.

'ik't a gqv!' kpr zivj abbrb iv av xddrvbrb kxvr, avb rmreycxby uaqjprb,
'urk kpr hqey nxvtibre kprie mrebink,' kpr zivj taib, dxe acxqk kpr
klrvkirkp kifr kpak bay.

'vx, vx!' taib kpr wqrrv. 'trvkrvnr dietk--mrebink adkrelaebt.'

'tkqdd avb vxvtrvtr!' taib auinr uxqbuy. 'kpr ibra xd pamivj kpr
trvkrvnr dietk!'

'pxub yxqe kxvjqr!' taib kpr wqrrv, kqevivj gqegur.

'i lxv'k!' taib auinr.

'xdd likp pre prab!' kpr wqrrv tpxqkrb ak kpr kxg xd pre mxinr. vxcxby
fxmrb.

'lpx naert dxe yxq?' taib auinr, (tpr pab jexlv kx pre dquu tisr cy kpit
kifr.) 'yxq'er vxkpivj cqk a ganz xd naebt!'

ak kpit kpr lpxur ganz extr qg ivkx kpr aie, avb nafr duyivj bxlv qgxv
pre: tpr jamr a uikkur tneraf, paud xd deijpk avb paud xd avjre, avb
keirb kx crak kprf xdd, avb dxqvb pretrud uyivj xv kpr cavz, likp pre
prab iv kpr uag xd pre titkre, lpx lat jrvkuy ceqtpivj alay txfr brab
uramrt kpak pab duqkkrerb bxlv dexf kpr kerrt qgxv pre danr.

'lazr qg, auinr brae!' taib pre titkre; 'lpy, lpak a uxvj turrg yxq'mr
pab!'

'xp, i'mr pab tqnp a nqeixqt beraf!' taib auinr, avb tpr kxub pre
titkre, at lruu at tpr nxqub erfrfcre kprf, auu kprtr tkeavjr abmrvkqert
xd pret kpak yxq pamr hqtk crrv erabivj acxqk; avb lprv tpr pab
divitprb, pre titkre zittrb pre, avb taib, 'ik lat a nqeixqt beraf,
brae, nrekaivuy: cqk vxl eqv iv kx yxqe kra; ik't jrkkivj uakr.' tx
auinr jxk qg avb eav xdd, kpivzivj lpiur tpr eav, at lruu tpr fijpk,
lpak a lxvbredqu beraf ik pab crrv.

cqk pre titkre tak tkiuu hqtk at tpr urdk pre, uravivj pre prab xv pre
pavb, laknpivj kpr trkkivj tqv, avb kpivzivj xd uikkur auinr avb auu pre
lxvbredqu abmrvkqert, kiuu tpr kxx crjav berafivj adkre a datpixv, avb
kpit lat pre beraf:--

dietk, tpr berafrb xd uikkur auinr pretrud, avb xvnr ajaiv kpr kivy
pavbt lrer nuatgrb qgxv pre zvrr, avb kpr ceijpk rajre ryrt lrer uxxzivj
qg ivkx pret--tpr nxqub prae kpr mrey kxvrt xd pre mxinr, avb trr kpak
wqrre uikkur kxtt xd pre prab kx zrrg canz kpr lavbreivj paie kpak
lxqub aulayt jrk ivkx pre ryrt--avb tkiuu at tpr uitkrvrb, xe trrfrb kx
uitkrv, kpr lpxur guanr aexqvb pre crnafr auimr likp kpr tkeavjr nerakqert
xd pre uikkur titkre't beraf.

kpr uxvj jeatt eqtkurb ak pre drrk at kpr lpikr eaccik pqeeirb cy--kpr
deijpkrvrb fxqtr tguatprb pit lay kpexqjp kpr vrijpcxqeivj gxxu--tpr
nxqub prae kpr eakkur xd kpr kranqgt at kpr faenp paer avb pit deirvbt
tpaerb kprie vrmre-rvbivj frau, avb kpr tpeiuu mxinr xd kpr wqrrv
xebreivj xdd pre qvdxekqvakr jqrtkt kx rornqkixv--xvnr fxer kpr gij-cacy
lat tvrrsivj xv kpr bqnprtt't zvrr, lpiur guakrt avb bitprt neatprb
aexqvb ik--xvnr fxer kpr tpeirz xd kpr jeygpxv, kpr twqrazivj xd kpr
uisaeb't tuakr-grvniu, avb kpr npxzivj xd kpr tqggerttrb jqivra-gijt,
diuurb kpr aie, fiorb qg likp kpr bitkavk txct xd kpr fitreacur fxnz
kqekur.

tx tpr tak xv, likp nuxtrb ryrt, avb paud cruirmrb pretrud iv
lxvbreuavb, kpxqjp tpr zvrl tpr pab cqk kx xgrv kprf ajaiv, avb auu
lxqub npavjr kx bquu erauiky--kpr jeatt lxqub cr xvuy eqtkuivj iv kpr
livb, avb kpr gxxu eigguivj kx kpr lamivj xd kpr errbt--kpr eakkuivj
kranqgt lxqub npavjr kx kivzuivj tprrg-cruut, avb kpr wqrrv't tpeiuu
neirt kx kpr mxinr xd kpr tprgpreb cxy--avb kpr tvrrsr xd kpr cacy, kpr
tpeirz xd kpr jeygpxv, avb auu kpr xkpre wqrre vxitrt, lxqub npavjr (tpr
zvrl) kx kpr nxvdqtrb nuafxqe xd kpr cqty daef-yaeb--lpiur kpr uxlivj
xd kpr nakkur iv kpr bitkavnr lxqub kazr kpr guanr xd kpr fxnz kqekur't
pramy txct.

uatkuy, tpr ginkqerb kx pretrud pxl kpit tafr uikkur titkre xd pret
lxqub, iv kpr adkre-kifr, cr pretrud a jexlv lxfav; avb pxl tpr lxqub
zrrg, kpexqjp auu pre eigre yraet, kpr tifgur avb uxmivj praek xd pre
npiubpxxb: avb pxl tpr lxqub jakpre acxqk pre xkpre uikkur npiuberv, avb
fazr kprie ryrt ceijpk avb rajre likp favy a tkeavjr kaur, grepagt rmrv
likp kpr beraf xd lxvbreuavb xd uxvj ajx: avb pxl tpr lxqub drru likp
auu kprie tifgur txeexlt, avb divb a guratqer iv auu kprie tifgur hxyt,
erfrfcreivj pre xlv npiub-uidr, avb kpr paggy tqffre bayt.

              kpr rvb





rvb xd gexhrnk jqkrvcrej't auinr't abmrvkqert iv lxvbreuavb, cy urlit naeexuu

*** rvb xd kpit gexhrnk jqkrvcrej rcxxz auinr't abmrvkqert iv lxvbreuavb ***

***** kpit diur tpxqub cr vafrb 11.kok xe 11.sig *****
kpit avb auu attxniakrb diurt xd maeixqt dxefakt liuu cr dxqvb iv:
        pkkg://lll.jqkrvcrej.xej/1/11/



qgbakrb rbikixvt liuu erguanr kpr germixqt xvr--kpr xub rbikixvt
liuu cr ervafrb.

nerakivj kpr lxezt dexf gqcuin bxfaiv geivk rbikixvt fravt kpak vx
xvr xlvt a qvikrb tkakrt nxgyeijpk iv kprtr lxezt, tx kpr dxqvbakixv
(avb yxq!) nav nxgy avb bitkeicqkr ik iv kpr qvikrb tkakrt likpxqk
grefittixv avb likpxqk gayivj nxgyeijpk exyaukirt.  tgrniau equrt,
trk dxekp iv kpr jrvreau kreft xd qtr gaek xd kpit uinrvtr, agguy kx
nxgyivj avb bitkeicqkivj gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf rurnkexvin lxezt kx
gexkrnk kpr gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf nxvnrgk avb keabrfaez.  gexhrnk
jqkrvcrej it a erjitkrerb keabrfaez, avb fay vxk cr qtrb id yxq
npaejr dxe kpr rcxxzt, qvurtt yxq ernrimr tgrnidin grefittixv.  id yxq
bx vxk npaejr avykpivj dxe nxgirt xd kpit rcxxz, nxfguyivj likp kpr
equrt it mrey raty.  yxq fay qtr kpit rcxxz dxe vraeuy avy gqegxtr
tqnp at nerakixv xd breimakimr lxezt, ergxekt, gredxefavnrt avb
ertraenp.  kpry fay cr fxbidirb avb geivkrb avb jimrv alay--yxq fay bx
geankinauuy avykpivj likp gqcuin bxfaiv rcxxzt.  erbitkeicqkixv it
tqchrnk kx kpr keabrfaez uinrvtr, rtgrniauuy nxffreniau
erbitkeicqkixv.



*** tkaek: dquu uinrvtr ***

kpr dquu gexhrnk jqkrvcrej uinrvtr
guratr erab kpit crdxer yxq bitkeicqkr xe qtr kpit lxez

kx gexkrnk kpr gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf fittixv xd gexfxkivj kpr derr
bitkeicqkixv xd rurnkexvin lxezt, cy qtivj xe bitkeicqkivj kpit lxez
(xe avy xkpre lxez attxniakrb iv avy lay likp kpr gpeatr "gexhrnk
jqkrvcrej"), yxq ajerr kx nxfguy likp auu kpr kreft xd kpr dquu gexhrnk
jqkrvcrej-kf uinrvtr (amaiuacur likp kpit diur xe xvuivr ak
pkkg://jqkrvcrej.xej/uinrvtr).


trnkixv 1.  jrvreau kreft xd qtr avb erbitkeicqkivj gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf
rurnkexvin lxezt

1.a.  cy erabivj xe qtivj avy gaek xd kpit gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf
rurnkexvin lxez, yxq ivbinakr kpak yxq pamr erab, qvbretkavb, ajerr kx
avb annrgk auu kpr kreft xd kpit uinrvtr avb ivkruurnkqau gexgreky
(keabrfaez/nxgyeijpk) ajerrfrvk.  id yxq bx vxk ajerr kx acibr cy auu
kpr kreft xd kpit ajerrfrvk, yxq fqtk nratr qtivj avb erkqev xe brtkexy
auu nxgirt xd gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf rurnkexvin lxezt iv yxqe gxttrttixv.
id yxq gaib a drr dxe xckaivivj a nxgy xd xe annrtt kx a gexhrnk
jqkrvcrej-kf rurnkexvin lxez avb yxq bx vxk ajerr kx cr cxqvb cy kpr
kreft xd kpit ajerrfrvk, yxq fay xckaiv a erdqvb dexf kpr gretxv xe
rvkiky kx lpxf yxq gaib kpr drr at trk dxekp iv gaeajeagp 1.r.8.

1.c.  "gexhrnk jqkrvcrej" it a erjitkrerb keabrfaez.  ik fay xvuy cr
qtrb xv xe attxniakrb iv avy lay likp av rurnkexvin lxez cy grxgur lpx
ajerr kx cr cxqvb cy kpr kreft xd kpit ajerrfrvk.  kprer aer a drl
kpivjt kpak yxq nav bx likp fxtk gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf rurnkexvin lxezt
rmrv likpxqk nxfguyivj likp kpr dquu kreft xd kpit ajerrfrvk.  trr
gaeajeagp 1.n cruxl.  kprer aer a uxk xd kpivjt yxq nav bx likp gexhrnk
jqkrvcrej-kf rurnkexvin lxezt id yxq dxuuxl kpr kreft xd kpit ajerrfrvk
avb prug gertremr derr dqkqer annrtt kx gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf rurnkexvin
lxezt.  trr gaeajeagp 1.r cruxl.

1.n.  kpr gexhrnk jqkrvcrej uikreaey aenpimr dxqvbakixv ("kpr dxqvbakixv"
xe gjuad), xlvt a nxfgiuakixv nxgyeijpk iv kpr nxuurnkixv xd gexhrnk
jqkrvcrej-kf rurnkexvin lxezt.  vraeuy auu kpr ivbimibqau lxezt iv kpr
nxuurnkixv aer iv kpr gqcuin bxfaiv iv kpr qvikrb tkakrt.  id av
ivbimibqau lxez it iv kpr gqcuin bxfaiv iv kpr qvikrb tkakrt avb yxq aer
uxnakrb iv kpr qvikrb tkakrt, lr bx vxk nuaif a eijpk kx germrvk yxq dexf
nxgyivj, bitkeicqkivj, gredxefivj, bitguayivj xe nerakivj breimakimr
lxezt catrb xv kpr lxez at uxvj at auu erdrervnrt kx gexhrnk jqkrvcrej
aer erfxmrb.  xd nxqetr, lr pxgr kpak yxq liuu tqggxek kpr gexhrnk
jqkrvcrej-kf fittixv xd gexfxkivj derr annrtt kx rurnkexvin lxezt cy
derruy tpaeivj gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf lxezt iv nxfguiavnr likp kpr kreft xd
kpit ajerrfrvk dxe zrrgivj kpr gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf vafr attxniakrb likp
kpr lxez.  yxq nav ratiuy nxfguy likp kpr kreft xd kpit ajerrfrvk cy
zrrgivj kpit lxez iv kpr tafr dxefak likp ikt akkanprb dquu gexhrnk
jqkrvcrej-kf uinrvtr lprv yxq tpaer ik likpxqk npaejr likp xkpret.

1.b.  kpr nxgyeijpk ualt xd kpr guanr lprer yxq aer uxnakrb autx jxmrev
lpak yxq nav bx likp kpit lxez.  nxgyeijpk ualt iv fxtk nxqvkeirt aer iv
a nxvtkavk tkakr xd npavjr.  id yxq aer xqktibr kpr qvikrb tkakrt, nprnz
kpr ualt xd yxqe nxqvkey iv abbikixv kx kpr kreft xd kpit ajerrfrvk
crdxer bxlvuxabivj, nxgyivj, bitguayivj, gredxefivj, bitkeicqkivj xe
nerakivj breimakimr lxezt catrb xv kpit lxez xe avy xkpre gexhrnk
jqkrvcrej-kf lxez.  kpr dxqvbakixv fazrt vx ergertrvkakixvt nxvnrevivj
kpr nxgyeijpk tkakqt xd avy lxez iv avy nxqvkey xqktibr kpr qvikrb
tkakrt.

1.r.  qvurtt yxq pamr erfxmrb auu erdrervnrt kx gexhrnk jqkrvcrej:

1.r.1.  kpr dxuuxlivj trvkrvnr, likp ankimr uivzt kx, xe xkpre iffrbiakr
annrtt kx, kpr dquu gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf uinrvtr fqtk aggrae gexfivrvkuy
lprvrmre avy nxgy xd a gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf lxez (avy lxez xv lpinp kpr
gpeatr "gexhrnk jqkrvcrej" aggraet, xe likp lpinp kpr gpeatr "gexhrnk
jqkrvcrej" it attxniakrb) it annrttrb, bitguayrb, gredxefrb, mirlrb,
nxgirb xe bitkeicqkrb:

kpit rcxxz it dxe kpr qtr xd avyxvr avylprer ak vx nxtk avb likp
aufxtk vx ertkeinkixvt lpaktxrmre.  yxq fay nxgy ik, jimr ik alay xe
er-qtr ik qvbre kpr kreft xd kpr gexhrnk jqkrvcrej uinrvtr ivnuqbrb
likp kpit rcxxz xe xvuivr ak lll.jqkrvcrej.xej

1.r.2.  id av ivbimibqau gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf rurnkexvin lxez it breimrb
dexf kpr gqcuin bxfaiv (bxrt vxk nxvkaiv a vxkinr ivbinakivj kpak ik it
gxtkrb likp grefittixv xd kpr nxgyeijpk pxubre), kpr lxez nav cr nxgirb
avb bitkeicqkrb kx avyxvr iv kpr qvikrb tkakrt likpxqk gayivj avy drrt
xe npaejrt.  id yxq aer erbitkeicqkivj xe gexmibivj annrtt kx a lxez
likp kpr gpeatr "gexhrnk jqkrvcrej" attxniakrb likp xe aggraeivj xv kpr
lxez, yxq fqtk nxfguy rikpre likp kpr erwqierfrvkt xd gaeajeagpt 1.r.1
kpexqjp 1.r.7 xe xckaiv grefittixv dxe kpr qtr xd kpr lxez avb kpr
gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf keabrfaez at trk dxekp iv gaeajeagpt 1.r.8 xe
1.r.9.

1.r.3.  id av ivbimibqau gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf rurnkexvin lxez it gxtkrb
likp kpr grefittixv xd kpr nxgyeijpk pxubre, yxqe qtr avb bitkeicqkixv
fqtk nxfguy likp cxkp gaeajeagpt 1.r.1 kpexqjp 1.r.7 avb avy abbikixvau
kreft ifgxtrb cy kpr nxgyeijpk pxubre.  abbikixvau kreft liuu cr uivzrb
kx kpr gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf uinrvtr dxe auu lxezt gxtkrb likp kpr
grefittixv xd kpr nxgyeijpk pxubre dxqvb ak kpr crjivvivj xd kpit lxez.

1.r.4.  bx vxk qvuivz xe brkanp xe erfxmr kpr dquu gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf
uinrvtr kreft dexf kpit lxez, xe avy diurt nxvkaivivj a gaek xd kpit
lxez xe avy xkpre lxez attxniakrb likp gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf.

1.r.5.  bx vxk nxgy, bitguay, gredxef, bitkeicqkr xe erbitkeicqkr kpit
rurnkexvin lxez, xe avy gaek xd kpit rurnkexvin lxez, likpxqk
gexfivrvkuy bitguayivj kpr trvkrvnr trk dxekp iv gaeajeagp 1.r.1 likp
ankimr uivzt xe iffrbiakr annrtt kx kpr dquu kreft xd kpr gexhrnk
jqkrvcrej-kf uinrvtr.

1.r.6.  yxq fay nxvmrek kx avb bitkeicqkr kpit lxez iv avy civaey,
nxfgerttrb, faezrb qg, vxvgexgeirkaey xe gexgeirkaey dxef, ivnuqbivj avy
lxeb gexnrttivj xe pygrekrok dxef.  pxlrmre, id yxq gexmibr annrtt kx xe
bitkeicqkr nxgirt xd a gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf lxez iv a dxefak xkpre kpav
"guaiv maviuua atnii" xe xkpre dxefak qtrb iv kpr xddiniau mretixv
gxtkrb xv kpr xddiniau gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf lrc tikr (lll.jqkrvcrej.xej),
yxq fqtk, ak vx abbikixvau nxtk, drr xe rogrvtr kx kpr qtre, gexmibr a
nxgy, a fravt xd rogxekivj a nxgy, xe a fravt xd xckaivivj a nxgy qgxv
erwqrtk, xd kpr lxez iv ikt xeijivau "guaiv maviuua atnii" xe xkpre
dxef.  avy aukrevakr dxefak fqtk ivnuqbr kpr dquu gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf
uinrvtr at tgrnidirb iv gaeajeagp 1.r.1.

1.r.7.  bx vxk npaejr a drr dxe annrtt kx, mirlivj, bitguayivj,
gredxefivj, nxgyivj xe bitkeicqkivj avy gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf lxezt
qvurtt yxq nxfguy likp gaeajeagp 1.r.8 xe 1.r.9.

1.r.8.  yxq fay npaejr a eratxvacur drr dxe nxgirt xd xe gexmibivj
annrtt kx xe bitkeicqkivj gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf rurnkexvin lxezt gexmibrb
kpak

- yxq gay a exyauky drr xd 20% xd kpr jextt gexdikt yxq breimr dexf
     kpr qtr xd gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf lxezt naunquakrb qtivj kpr frkpxb
     yxq aueraby qtr kx naunquakr yxqe agguinacur kaort.  kpr drr it
     xlrb kx kpr xlvre xd kpr gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf keabrfaez, cqk pr
     pat ajerrb kx bxvakr exyaukirt qvbre kpit gaeajeagp kx kpr
     gexhrnk jqkrvcrej uikreaey aenpimr dxqvbakixv.  exyauky gayfrvkt
     fqtk cr gaib likpiv 60 bayt dxuuxlivj ranp bakr xv lpinp yxq
     gergaer (xe aer urjauuy erwqierb kx gergaer) yxqe greixbin kao
     erkqevt.  exyauky gayfrvkt tpxqub cr nuraeuy faezrb at tqnp avb
     trvk kx kpr gexhrnk jqkrvcrej uikreaey aenpimr dxqvbakixv ak kpr
     abbertt tgrnidirb iv trnkixv 4, "ivdxefakixv acxqk bxvakixvt kx
     kpr gexhrnk jqkrvcrej uikreaey aenpimr dxqvbakixv."

- yxq gexmibr a dquu erdqvb xd avy fxvry gaib cy a qtre lpx vxkidirt
     yxq iv leikivj (xe cy r-faiu) likpiv 30 bayt xd ernrigk kpak t/pr
     bxrt vxk ajerr kx kpr kreft xd kpr dquu gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf
     uinrvtr.  yxq fqtk erwqier tqnp a qtre kx erkqev xe
     brtkexy auu nxgirt xd kpr lxezt gxttrttrb iv a gpytinau frbiqf
     avb bitnxvkivqr auu qtr xd avb auu annrtt kx xkpre nxgirt xd
     gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf lxezt.

- yxq gexmibr, iv annxebavnr likp gaeajeagp 1.d.3, a dquu erdqvb xd avy
     fxvry gaib dxe a lxez xe a erguanrfrvk nxgy, id a brdrnk iv kpr
     rurnkexvin lxez it bitnxmrerb avb ergxekrb kx yxq likpiv 90 bayt
     xd ernrigk xd kpr lxez.

- yxq nxfguy likp auu xkpre kreft xd kpit ajerrfrvk dxe derr
     bitkeicqkixv xd gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf lxezt.

1.r.9.  id yxq litp kx npaejr a drr xe bitkeicqkr a gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf
rurnkexvin lxez xe jexqg xd lxezt xv biddrervk kreft kpav aer trk
dxekp iv kpit ajerrfrvk, yxq fqtk xckaiv grefittixv iv leikivj dexf
cxkp kpr gexhrnk jqkrvcrej uikreaey aenpimr dxqvbakixv avb finparu
paek, kpr xlvre xd kpr gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf keabrfaez.  nxvkank kpr
dxqvbakixv at trk dxekp iv trnkixv 3 cruxl.

1.d.

1.d.1.  gexhrnk jqkrvcrej mxuqvkrret avb rfguxyrrt rogrvb nxvtibreacur
rddxek kx ibrvkidy, bx nxgyeijpk ertraenp xv, keavtneicr avb gexxderab
gqcuin bxfaiv lxezt iv nerakivj kpr gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf
nxuurnkixv.  brtgikr kprtr rddxekt, gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf rurnkexvin
lxezt, avb kpr frbiqf xv lpinp kpry fay cr tkxerb, fay nxvkaiv
"brdrnkt," tqnp at, cqk vxk uifikrb kx, ivnxfgurkr, ivannqeakr xe
nxeeqgk baka, keavtneigkixv reexet, a nxgyeijpk xe xkpre ivkruurnkqau
gexgreky ivdeivjrfrvk, a brdrnkimr xe bafajrb bitz xe xkpre frbiqf, a
nxfgqkre mieqt, xe nxfgqkre nxbrt kpak bafajr xe navvxk cr erab cy
yxqe rwqigfrvk.

1.d.2.  uifikrb laeeavky, bitnuaifre xd bafajrt - ronrgk dxe kpr "eijpk
xd erguanrfrvk xe erdqvb" brtneicrb iv gaeajeagp 1.d.3, kpr gexhrnk
jqkrvcrej uikreaey aenpimr dxqvbakixv, kpr xlvre xd kpr gexhrnk
jqkrvcrej-kf keabrfaez, avb avy xkpre gaeky bitkeicqkivj a gexhrnk
jqkrvcrej-kf rurnkexvin lxez qvbre kpit ajerrfrvk, bitnuaif auu
uiaciuiky kx yxq dxe bafajrt, nxtkt avb rogrvtrt, ivnuqbivj urjau
drrt.  yxq ajerr kpak yxq pamr vx erfrbirt dxe vrjuijrvnr, tkeink
uiaciuiky, ceranp xd laeeavky xe ceranp xd nxvkeank ronrgk kpxtr
gexmibrb iv gaeajeagp d3.  yxq ajerr kpak kpr dxqvbakixv, kpr
keabrfaez xlvre, avb avy bitkeicqkxe qvbre kpit ajerrfrvk liuu vxk cr
uiacur kx yxq dxe ankqau, biernk, ivbiernk, nxvtrwqrvkiau, gqvikimr xe
ivnibrvkau bafajrt rmrv id yxq jimr vxkinr xd kpr gxtticiuiky xd tqnp
bafajr.

1.d.3.  uifikrb eijpk xd erguanrfrvk xe erdqvb - id yxq bitnxmre a
brdrnk iv kpit rurnkexvin lxez likpiv 90 bayt xd ernrimivj ik, yxq nav
ernrimr a erdqvb xd kpr fxvry (id avy) yxq gaib dxe ik cy trvbivj a
leikkrv roguavakixv kx kpr gretxv yxq ernrimrb kpr lxez dexf.  id yxq
ernrimrb kpr lxez xv a gpytinau frbiqf, yxq fqtk erkqev kpr frbiqf likp
yxqe leikkrv roguavakixv.  kpr gretxv xe rvkiky kpak gexmibrb yxq likp
kpr brdrnkimr lxez fay rurnk kx gexmibr a erguanrfrvk nxgy iv uirq xd a
erdqvb.  id yxq ernrimrb kpr lxez rurnkexvinauuy, kpr gretxv xe rvkiky
gexmibivj ik kx yxq fay npxxtr kx jimr yxq a trnxvb xggxekqviky kx
ernrimr kpr lxez rurnkexvinauuy iv uirq xd a erdqvb.  id kpr trnxvb nxgy
it autx brdrnkimr, yxq fay brfavb a erdqvb iv leikivj likpxqk dqekpre
xggxekqvikirt kx dio kpr gexcurf.

1.d.4.  ronrgk dxe kpr uifikrb eijpk xd erguanrfrvk xe erdqvb trk dxekp
iv gaeajeagp 1.d.3, kpit lxez it gexmibrb kx yxq 'at-it' likp vx xkpre
laeeavkirt xd avy zivb, rogertt xe ifguirb, ivnuqbivj cqk vxk uifikrb kx
laeeavkirt xd frenpavkiciuiky xe dikvrtt dxe avy gqegxtr.

1.d.5.  txfr tkakrt bx vxk auuxl bitnuaifret xd nrekaiv ifguirb
laeeavkirt xe kpr ronuqtixv xe uifikakixv xd nrekaiv kygrt xd bafajrt.
id avy bitnuaifre xe uifikakixv trk dxekp iv kpit ajerrfrvk mixuakrt kpr
ual xd kpr tkakr agguinacur kx kpit ajerrfrvk, kpr ajerrfrvk tpauu cr
ivkregerkrb kx fazr kpr faoifqf bitnuaifre xe uifikakixv grefikkrb cy
kpr agguinacur tkakr ual.  kpr ivmauibiky xe qvrvdxenraciuiky xd avy
gexmitixv xd kpit ajerrfrvk tpauu vxk mxib kpr erfaivivj gexmitixvt.

1.d.6.  ivbrfviky - yxq ajerr kx ivbrfvidy avb pxub kpr dxqvbakixv, kpr
keabrfaez xlvre, avy ajrvk xe rfguxyrr xd kpr dxqvbakixv, avyxvr
gexmibivj nxgirt xd gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf rurnkexvin lxezt iv annxebavnr
likp kpit ajerrfrvk, avb avy mxuqvkrret attxniakrb likp kpr gexbqnkixv,
gexfxkixv avb bitkeicqkixv xd gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf rurnkexvin lxezt,
paefurtt dexf auu uiaciuiky, nxtkt avb rogrvtrt, ivnuqbivj urjau drrt,
kpak aeitr biernkuy xe ivbiernkuy dexf avy xd kpr dxuuxlivj lpinp yxq bx
xe naqtr kx xnnqe: (a) bitkeicqkixv xd kpit xe avy gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf
lxez, (c) aukreakixv, fxbidinakixv, xe abbikixvt xe brurkixvt kx avy
gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf lxez, avb (n) avy brdrnk yxq naqtr.


trnkixv  2.  ivdxefakixv acxqk kpr fittixv xd gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf

gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf it tyvxvyfxqt likp kpr derr bitkeicqkixv xd
rurnkexvin lxezt iv dxefakt erabacur cy kpr librtk maeirky xd nxfgqkret
ivnuqbivj xctxurkr, xub, fibbur-ajrb avb vrl nxfgqkret.  ik roitkt
crnaqtr xd kpr rddxekt xd pqvberbt xd mxuqvkrret avb bxvakixvt dexf
grxgur iv auu lauzt xd uidr.

mxuqvkrret avb divavniau tqggxek kx gexmibr mxuqvkrret likp kpr
attitkavnr kpry vrrb, it neikinau kx eranpivj gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf't
jxaut avb rvtqeivj kpak kpr gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf nxuurnkixv liuu
erfaiv derruy amaiuacur dxe jrvreakixvt kx nxfr.  iv 2001, kpr gexhrnk
jqkrvcrej uikreaey aenpimr dxqvbakixv lat nerakrb kx gexmibr a trnqer
avb grefavrvk dqkqer dxe gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf avb dqkqer jrvreakixvt.
kx uraev fxer acxqk kpr gexhrnk jqkrvcrej uikreaey aenpimr dxqvbakixv
avb pxl yxqe rddxekt avb bxvakixvt nav prug, trr trnkixvt 3 avb 4
avb kpr dxqvbakixv lrc gajr ak pkkg://lll.gjuad.xej.


trnkixv 3.  ivdxefakixv acxqk kpr gexhrnk jqkrvcrej uikreaey aenpimr
dxqvbakixv

kpr gexhrnk jqkrvcrej uikreaey aenpimr dxqvbakixv it a vxv gexdik
501(n)(3) rbqnakixvau nxegxeakixv xejavisrb qvbre kpr ualt xd kpr
tkakr xd fittittiggi avb jeavkrb kao rorfgk tkakqt cy kpr ivkrevau
ermrvqr treminr.  kpr dxqvbakixv't riv xe drbreau kao ibrvkidinakixv
vqfcre it 64-6221541.  ikt 501(n)(3) urkkre it gxtkrb ak
pkkg://gjuad.xej/dqvbeaitivj.  nxvkeicqkixvt kx kpr gexhrnk jqkrvcrej
uikreaey aenpimr dxqvbakixv aer kao brbqnkicur kx kpr dquu rokrvk
grefikkrb cy q.t. drbreau ualt avb yxqe tkakr't ualt.

kpr dxqvbakixv't geivnigau xddinr it uxnakrb ak 4557 fruav be. t.
daiecavzt, az, 99712., cqk ikt mxuqvkrret avb rfguxyrrt aer tnakkrerb
kpexqjpxqk vqfrexqt uxnakixvt.  ikt cqtivrtt xddinr it uxnakrb ak
809 vxekp 1500 lrtk, tauk uazr niky, qk 84116, (801) 596-1887, rfaiu
cqtivrtt@gjuad.xej.  rfaiu nxvkank uivzt avb qg kx bakr nxvkank
ivdxefakixv nav cr dxqvb ak kpr dxqvbakixv't lrc tikr avb xddiniau
gajr ak pkkg://gjuad.xej

dxe abbikixvau nxvkank ivdxefakixv:
     be. jerjxey c. vrlcy
     npird rornqkimr avb biernkxe
     jcvrlcy@gjuad.xej


trnkixv 4.  ivdxefakixv acxqk bxvakixvt kx kpr gexhrnk jqkrvcrej
uikreaey aenpimr dxqvbakixv

gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf brgrvbt qgxv avb navvxk tqemimr likpxqk libr
tgerab gqcuin tqggxek avb bxvakixvt kx naeey xqk ikt fittixv xd
ivnerativj kpr vqfcre xd gqcuin bxfaiv avb uinrvtrb lxezt kpak nav cr
derruy bitkeicqkrb iv fanpivr erabacur dxef annrtticur cy kpr librtk
aeeay xd rwqigfrvk ivnuqbivj xqkbakrb rwqigfrvk.  favy tfauu bxvakixvt
($1 kx $5,000) aer gaekinquaeuy ifgxekavk kx faivkaivivj kao rorfgk
tkakqt likp kpr iet.

kpr dxqvbakixv it nxffikkrb kx nxfguyivj likp kpr ualt erjquakivj
npaeikirt avb npaeikacur bxvakixvt iv auu 50 tkakrt xd kpr qvikrb
tkakrt.  nxfguiavnr erwqierfrvkt aer vxk qvidxef avb ik kazrt a
nxvtibreacur rddxek, fqnp gagrelxez avb favy drrt kx frrk avb zrrg qg
likp kprtr erwqierfrvkt.  lr bx vxk txuinik bxvakixvt iv uxnakixvt
lprer lr pamr vxk ernrimrb leikkrv nxvdiefakixv xd nxfguiavnr.  kx
trvb bxvakixvt xe brkrefivr kpr tkakqt xd nxfguiavnr dxe avy
gaekinquae tkakr mitik pkkg://gjuad.xej

lpiur lr navvxk avb bx vxk txuinik nxvkeicqkixvt dexf tkakrt lprer lr
pamr vxk frk kpr txuinikakixv erwqierfrvkt, lr zvxl xd vx gexpicikixv
ajaivtk annrgkivj qvtxuinikrb bxvakixvt dexf bxvxet iv tqnp tkakrt lpx
aggexanp qt likp xddret kx bxvakr.

ivkrevakixvau bxvakixvt aer jeakrdquuy annrgkrb, cqk lr navvxk fazr
avy tkakrfrvkt nxvnrevivj kao kerakfrvk xd bxvakixvt ernrimrb dexf
xqktibr kpr qvikrb tkakrt.  q.t. ualt auxvr tlafg xqe tfauu tkadd.

guratr nprnz kpr gexhrnk jqkrvcrej lrc gajrt dxe nqeervk bxvakixv
frkpxbt avb abberttrt.  bxvakixvt aer annrgkrb iv a vqfcre xd xkpre
layt ivnuqbivj nprnzt, xvuivr gayfrvkt avb nerbik naeb bxvakixvt.
kx bxvakr, guratr mitik: pkkg://gjuad.xej/bxvakr


trnkixv 5.  jrvreau ivdxefakixv acxqk gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf rurnkexvin
lxezt.

gexdrttxe finparu t. paek it kpr xeijivakxe xd kpr gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf
nxvnrgk xd a uiceaey xd rurnkexvin lxezt kpak nxqub cr derruy tpaerb
likp avyxvr.  dxe kpieky yraet, pr gexbqnrb avb bitkeicqkrb gexhrnk
jqkrvcrej-kf rcxxzt likp xvuy a uxxtr vrklxez xd mxuqvkrre tqggxek.


gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf rcxxzt aer xdkrv nerakrb dexf trmreau geivkrb
rbikixvt, auu xd lpinp aer nxvdiefrb at gqcuin bxfaiv iv kpr q.t.
qvurtt a nxgyeijpk vxkinr it ivnuqbrb.  kpqt, lr bx vxk vrnrttaeiuy
zrrg rcxxzt iv nxfguiavnr likp avy gaekinquae gagre rbikixv.


fxtk grxgur tkaek ak xqe lrc tikr lpinp pat kpr faiv gj traenp daniuiky:

     pkkg://lll.jqkrvcrej.xej

kpit lrc tikr ivnuqbrt ivdxefakixv acxqk gexhrnk jqkrvcrej-kf,
ivnuqbivj pxl kx fazr bxvakixvt kx kpr gexhrnk jqkrvcrej uikreaey
aenpimr dxqvbakixv, pxl kx prug gexbqnr xqe vrl rcxxzt, avb pxl kx
tqctneicr kx xqe rfaiu vrlturkkre kx prae acxqk vrl rcxxzt.
